Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 14. The National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​is created, as a decentralized organism of the Federal Public Administration, of public and social service, with legal personality and own patrimony, sectorized in the Ministry of Public Education, whose object is to promote the strengthening, preservation and development of the indigenous languages ​​spoken in the national territory, knowledge and enjoyment of the cultural wealth of the Nation, and advising the three orders of government to articulate the necessary public policies in this area. For the fulfillment of this object, the Institute will have the following characteristics and powers:

a) Design strategies and instruments for the development of national indigenous languages, in coordination with the three levels of government and indigenous peoples and communities.

b) Promote programs, projects and actions to invigorate the knowledge of national indigenous cultures and languages.

c) Expand the social scope of use of national indigenous languages ​​and promote access to their knowledge; stimulate the preservation, knowledge and appreciation of indigenous languages ​​in public spaces and the media, according to the regulations on the matter.

d) Establish regulations and formulate programs to certify and accredit bilingual technicians and professionals. Promote the training of specialists in the subject, who are also knowledgeable of the culture in question, linking their activities and undergraduate and postgraduate programs, as well as diploma courses and specialization, updating and training courses.

e) Formulate and carry out linguistic, literary and educational development projects.

f) Elaborate and promote the production of grammars, the standardization of writing and the promotion of literacy in national indigenous languages.

g) Carry out and promote basic and applied research to improve knowledge of national indigenous languages ​​and promote their dissemination.

h) Carry out research to learn about the diversity of national indigenous languages, and support the National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics to design the methodology for carrying out the sociolinguistic census to determine the number and distribution of its speakers.

i) Act as a body of consultation and advice of the dependencies and entities of the Federal Public Administration, as well as of the instances of the Legislative and Judicial Powers, of the governments of the states and of the municipalities, and of the institutions and social organizations and private in the matter.

j) Report on the application of the provisions of the Constitution, the international treaties ratified by Mexico and this Law, regarding indigenous languages, and issue to the three orders of government the pertinent recommendations and measures to guarantee their preservation and development.

k) Promote and support the creation and operation of institutes in the states and municipalities, in accordance with the applicable laws of the federal entities, according to the presence of the national indigenous languages ​​in the respective territories.

l) To enter into agreements, in accordance with the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, with individuals or legal entities and with public or private, national, international or foreign organizations, in accordance with the Institute's own activities and the applicable regulations.