I'm not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
If for others I am not an apostle, at least for you I am; for you are the seal of my apostolate in the Lord.
My defense against those who examine me is this:
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
Do we not have the right to take with us a believing wife, as well as the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
Or perhaps only Barnabas and I do not have the right not to work?
Who has ever served as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its fruit? Or who cares for a flock and does not drink the milk of the flock?
Do I say this according to human judgment? Doesn't the law also say the same?
For in the law of Moses it is written: YOU SHALL NOT MUTE THE OX WHEN IT THRESHES. Does God care about oxen?
Or does it say it especially for us? Yes, it was written for us, because he who plows must plow with hope, and he who threshes must thresh with the hope of receiving the harvest.
If we sow the spiritual in you, is it too much that we reap the material from you?
If others have this right over you, don't we have it even more? However, we have not used this right, but we suffer everything so as not to hinder the gospel of Christ.
Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who regularly serve the altar receive their share from the altar?
So also the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel live by the gospel.
But I have not taken advantage of any of this. And I do not write this so that it is done with me; because it would be better to die, than to allow someone to deprive me of this glory.
Because if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast about, for I am under a duty to do so; Well woe to me if I don't preach the gospel!
Because if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward; but if I do it against my will, a commission has been entrusted to me.
What, then, is my reward? That by preaching the gospel, I can offer it for free without making full use of my right in the gospel.
Because although I am free of all, of all I have become a slave to win as many as possible.
I became a Jew as a Jew, to win the Jews; to those under the law, as under the law (although I am not under the law) to win over those under the law;
to those who are without law, as lawless (although I am not without the law of God, but under the law of Christ) to win those who are without law.
I became weak to the weak, to win the weak; I have done everything to all, so that by all means I may save some.
And I do everything for the love of the gospel, to be a partaker of it.
Don't you know that those who run in the stadium, all really run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way that you win.
And everyone who competes in games abstains from everything. They do it to receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible one.
Therefore, I run in this way, not as without a goal; this way I fight, not like hitting the air,
but I strike my body and make it my slave, lest having preached to others, I myself am disqualified.
