Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Sosthenes,
to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all who call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ everywhere, their Lord and ours:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Thanks I always give my God for you, for the grace of God that was given to you in Christ Jesus,
because in all things you are enriched in him, in every word and in all knowledge,
just as the testimony about Christ has been confirmed in you,
in such a way that you lack nothing in any gift, waiting for the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
He who will also confirm you to the end, so that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is God, through whom you were called to the brotherhood of his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord.
I beseech you therefore, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no dissension among you, but that you be perfectly united in the same mind and in the same opinion.
For I have been informed about you, my brothers, by those who are from Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
I mean, each one of you says: I am from Pablo; and I of Apollos; and I of Cefas; and I of Christ.
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or have you been baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I have baptized none of you, but Crispus and Gaius,
so that no one says that he has been baptized in my name.
And I also baptized the Estéfanas family; but I don't know if I have baptized someone else.
Because Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel; not with wisdom of words, so that the cross of Christ is not made vain.
For the word of the cross is folly to those who perish; but to those who are saved, that is, to us, it is the power of God.
For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will put aside the understanding of the learned.
Where's the wise man? Where's the scribe? Where is the controversialist of this century? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
For since in the wisdom of God the world has not known God through wisdom, it pleased God to save believers through the folly of preaching.
Because the Jews ask for signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom,
but we preach Christ crucified, for the Jews a stumbling block, and for the Gentile folly;
but for those called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God, and the wisdom of God.
Because the foolish of God is wiser than men, and the weak of God is stronger than men.
Well, brothers, look at your call, that there are not many wise according to the flesh, nor many powerful, nor many noble;
but the fool of the world God chose to shame the wise; and the weak in the world God chose to shame the strong;
and the vile of the world and the despised God chose, and what is not, to annul what is,
so that no meat brags in its presence.
But through him you are in Christ Jesus, who has been made by God, for us, wisdom, and justification, and sanctification and redemption,
so that, as it is written: He who glories, glory in the Lord.