And about spiritual gifts, brothers, I don't want you to be ignorant.
You know that when you were Gentiles, you went, just as you were led, to the dumb idols.
Therefore, I let you know that no one who speaks by the Spirit of God calls Jesus anathema; and nobody can affirm that Jesus is the Lord, except by the Holy Spirit.
Now there is a diversity of gifts, but the Spirit is the same.
And there is a diversity of ministries, but the Lord is the same.
And there are diversity of operations, but God, who does all things in all, is the same.
But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit.
For in truth, to this is the word of wisdom given by the Spirit; to another, the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit;
to another, faith by the same Spirit; and to another, gifts of healing by the same Spirit;
to another, doing miracles; and to another, prophecy; and to another, discernment of spirits; and to another, different genres of languages; and to another, interpretation of languages.
But all these things are done by one and the same Spirit, distributing each one in particular as he wants.
For just as the body is one, and has many members, but all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also Christ.
For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, either Jews or Greeks, either slaves or free; and we were all made to drink of the same Spirit.
Well, the body is not a single member, but many.
If the foot said: Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is that why it will not be of the body?
And if the ear says: Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, is that why it will not be of the body?
If the whole body were an eye, where would the ear be? If everything were heard, where would be the sense of smell?
But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, as he wanted.
Because if they were all one member, where would the body be?
But now there are many members, although only one is the body.
Not even the eye can say to the hand: I don't need you; neither head to toe: I have no need of you.
Rather, the body members that seem weakest are the most necessary;
and to those members of the body that we consider to be less honorable, to these we dress more honorably; and those who are less decent in us are treated with more decorum.
Because those who are more decent in us do not need it; but God thus formed the body, giving more abundant honor to the one who lacked;
so that there is no division in the body, but that all the members care equally for each other.
So if a member suffers, all members suffer with it; and if a member receives honor, all the members rejoice with him.
For you are the body of Christ, and individually you are members of it.
And God put some in the church, first apostles, then prophets, third teachers, then miracles; then the gifts of healing; grants, administrations and diversities of languages.
Are they all apostles? Are they all prophets? All teachers? Do they all work miracles?
Does everyone have gifts of healing? Do they all speak in tongues? Do they all interpret?
Seek ye therefore the best gifts; But I show you a much better way.