As for spiritual gifts, I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant.
You know that when you were heathens, in one way or another you were dragged towards the silent idols.
Therefore, I let you know that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says: Jesus is anathema; and nobody can say: Jesus is the Lord, except for the Holy Spirit.
Now there is a diversity of gifts, but the Spirit is the same.
And there is a diversity of ministries, but the Lord is the same.
And there are diverse operations, but it is the same God who does all things in everyone.
But each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
For one is given a word of wisdom by the Spirit; to another, the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit;
to another, faith by the same Spirit; to another, gifts of healing by the one Spirit;
to another, the power of miracles; to another, prophecy; to another, discernment of spirits; to another, different kinds of languages, and to another, interpretation of languages.
But all these things are done by one and the same Spirit, distributing each one individually according to the will of Him.
For just as the body is one, and has many members, but all the members of the body, although they are many, constitute a single body, so is Christ.
For by the same Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and we were all given to drink of the same Spirit.
Because the body is not a single member, but many.
If the foot said: Because I am not a hand, I am not part of the body, it does not stop being part of the body.
And if the ear said: Because I am not an eye, I am not part of the body, it does not stop being part of the body.
If the whole body were an eye, what would become of the ear? If everything were heard, what would become of smell?
Now, God has placed each of the members in the body as He pleased.
And if they were all one member, what would become of the body?
However, there are many members, but only one body.
And the eye cannot say to the hand: I don't need you; neither head to toe: I don't need you.
On the contrary, the truth is that the body members that seem to be the weakest are the most necessary;
and the parts of the body that we consider less honorable, we dress these with more honor; so that the parts that we consider more intimate, receive a more honorable treatment,
since our presentable parts do not need it. But thus God formed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it,
so that in the body there is no division, but the members have the same care for each other.
And if a member suffers, all the members suffer with him; and if a member is honored, all the members rejoice with him.
Now you are the body of Christ, and each of you individually a member of it.
And in the church, God has appointed: first, apostles; second, prophets; thirdly, teachers; then miracles; then, gifts of health, aid, administrations, various kinds of languages.
Are they all apostles? Are they all prophets? Are they all teachers? Are they all miracle workers?
Does everyone have gifts of healing? Does everyone speak in tongues? Does everyone interpret?
But earnestly desire the best gifts. And even I show you a more excellent way.