So I, brothers, could not speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal, as children in Christ.
I gave you milk to drink, and not solid food; because you weren't capable yet, nor are you now,
because you are still carnal; for, having jealousy among you, and strife and dissension, are you not carnal, and walk as men?
Because saying one: I certainly am of Paul, and another: I of Apollos, are you not carnal?
What, then, is Paul? And what is Apollos? Servants through whom you have believed; and that according to what the Lord has granted to each one.
I planted, Apollos watered, but God has given the growth.
So neither he who plants nor he who waters is God, who gives growth.
And the one who plants and the one who waters are the same thing, although each one will receive his reward according to his work.
Because we are collaborators with God, and you are the tillage of God, you are God's building.
According to the grace of God that has been given to me, I as an expert architect laid the foundation, and another builds on it; but each one watch how he builds on him.
For no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
And if anyone builds on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,
each one's work will become manifest; for the day will discover it, for it will be revealed by fire; and each one's work, whatever it may be, the fire will test.
If the work of one who builds remains, you will receive a reward.
If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss; but he himself will be saved, though as well as by fire.
Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone desecrates the temple of God, God will destroy him, because the temple of God, which you are, is holy.
Let no one deceive himself; If anyone among you believes himself to be wise in this world, make yourself ignorant in order to become wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness toward God, for it is written: He seizes the wise in their cunning.
And again: The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, which are vain.
So let no one boast in men, for everything is yours:
be Paul, be Apollos, be Cephas, be the world, be life, be death, be the present, be what is to come, everything is yours,
and you are of Christ, and Christ is of God.