Furthermore, brothers, I declare to you the gospel that I preached to you and that you received and in which you are also firm;
by which they are also saved, if they retain it as I have preached it to them. Otherwise, they believed in vain.
Because first of all I have taught you what I also received: that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;
that he was buried and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures;
that appeared to Pedro and then to twelve.
Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at once, many of whom still live; and others are already sleeping.
Then he appeared to James, and then to all the apostles.
And to the last of all, like one born out of time, he appeared to me too.
For I am the most insignificant of the apostles, and I am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me has not been in vain. Rather, I have worked harder than all of them; but not me, but the grace of God that has been with me.
Because whether it's me or them, that's how we preach, and that's how they believed.
Now if Christ is preached as having risen from the dead, how come some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
Because if there is no resurrection of the dead, Christ has not risen either.
And if Christ is not risen, our preaching is vain; Vain is also your faith.
And we are still found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God who raised Christ, who did not rise, if it is taken for granted that the dead do not rise.
Because if the dead do not rise, Christ has not risen either;
and if Christ is not risen, your faith is useless; they are still in their sins.
In this case, also those who have slept in Christ have perished.
If only in this life have we had hope in Christ, we are the most miserable of all men!
But now, Christ has risen from the dead, as firstfruits of those who slept.
Since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead has also come through a man.
For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
But each one in his order: Christ, the firstfruits; then those who are Christ's, at his coming.
Then the end, when he hands over the kingdom to the God and Father, when he has already annulled all principality, authority and power.
Because he must reign until he puts all his enemies under his feet.
The last enemy that will be destroyed is death.
Because he has fastened all things under his feet [a]. But when he says, "All things are subject to him," clearly he is excepting the one who subjected all things to him.
But when he puts all things in subjection, then the Son himself will also be subject to the one who subjected all things, so that God may be all in all.
On the other hand, what will those who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are not raised at all, why then are they baptized for them?
And why, then, do we risk ourselves at all times?
Yes, brothers, every day I die; I assure you because of how proud I am of you in Christ Jesus our Lord.
If as a man I fought in Ephesus against the wild beasts, what use is it to me? If the dead do not rise, let us eat and drink, that tomorrow we will die! [B].
Do not be fooled: "Bad company corrupts good customs" [c].
Return to sobriety, as is fair, and sin no more, because some have ignorance of God. To your shame I say it.
But someone will say: How do the dead rise? What kind of body do they come with?
Fool, what you sow does not come to life unless it dies.
And what you sow is not the body that is to come out, but the mere grain, whether of wheat or something else.
But God gives a body as He wants, each seed its own body.
Not all meat is the same meat; but one is the meat of men, another the meat of animals, another the meat of birds and another that of fish.
There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. But of one kind is the glory of the celestials; and on the other, that of the earthly ones.
One is the glory of the sun, another is the glory of the moon, and another is the glory of the stars; because one star is different from another in glory.
So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; is resurrected in incorruption.
It is sown in dishonor; is resurrected with glory. It is sown in weakness; is resurrected with power.
Natural body is sown; spiritual body is resurrected. There is a natural body; there is also a spiritual body.
So it is also written: the first man Adam became a living soul [d]; and the last Adam, life-giving spirit.
But the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual.
The first man is from the earth, earthly; the second man is heavenly.
As is the earthly, so are the earthly; and as the heavenly is, so are the heavenly.
And just as we have carried the image of the earthly, we will carry [e] also the image of the heavenly.
And this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor corruption inherit incorruption.
Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be transformed
in an instant, in the blink of an eye, to the final trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised without corruption; and we will be transformed.
For it is necessary that this corruptible be clothed with incorruption, and that this mortal be clothed with immortality.
And when this corruptible is dressed in incorruption and this mortal is dressed in immortality, then the word that is written will be fulfilled: Sorbida is death in victory!
Where is, oh die, your victory? Where is your sting, oh death? [F].
For the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
But thank God, who gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, my beloved brothers, be firm and constant, always abounding in the Lord's work, knowing that your hard work in the Lord is not in vain.