As for the things they wrote me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
But because of sexual immorality, every man has his wife, and every woman has her husband.
The husband fulfills the conjugal duty with his wife; likewise the wife with her husband.
The wife has no authority over her own body, but her husband; likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but his wife.
Do not deny each other, unless it is by mutual agreement for some time, that you engage in prayer and rejoin one, so that Satan will not tempt you because of your incontinence.
I say this by way of concession, not as a command.
Rather, I would like all men to be like me; but each one has his own gift from God: one in a certain way and another in another way.
So I say to the unmarried and the widows that it would be good for them if they stayed like me.
But if they have no gift of continence, they should marry; because it is better to get married than to burn.
But I command not those who have married, but the Lord: that the wife not separate from her husband
(but if she separates, that she remains unmarried or reconciles with her husband), and that the husband does not abandon his wife.
To the others I say, not the Lord: if a brother has an unbelieving wife, and she agrees to live with him, he should not abandon her.
And if any wife has an unbelieving husband, and he agrees to live with her, do not abandon him.
Because the unbelieving husband is sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife in the believer. Otherwise their children would be impure, but now they are holy.
But if the unbeliever separates, let him separate. In such a case, the brother or sister has not been placed under bondage, since God has called them to live in peace.
Because how do you know, oh wife, if perhaps you will save your husband? Or how do you know, oh husband, if perhaps you will save your wife?
Only that each one lives as the Lord assigned him, and just as he was when God called him; Thus I order in all the churches.
Was someone already circumcised called? Don't hide your circumcision. Has anyone been called uncircumcised? Don't be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; Rather, it is worth keeping God's commandments.
Each one remains in the condition in which he was called.
Were you called being a slave? Do not worry; but if you can set yourself free, of course try it.
For he who is called in the Lord as a slave is a free man from the Lord. In the same way, he who is called being free is also a slave of the Lord.
For price they were bought; do not become slaves of men.
Brothers, may each one stay with God in the condition in which he was called.
But with respect to those who are single, I have no command from the Lord, although I give my opinion as one who has obtained mercy from the Lord to be faithful.
Well, because of the present difficulty, it seems to me that it is good for a man to remain as he is.
Are you tied to a wife? Don't try to detach yourself. Are you free from a wife? Don't look for a wife.
But also, if you marry, you don't sin; and if the single woman marries, she does not sin; although those who marry will have affliction in the flesh, and I would like to avoid it.
But I tell you this, brothers, that time has shortened. As for the time remaining, those who have wives are as if they did not;
those who cry, as if they did not cry; those who rejoice, as if they were not rejoicing; those who buy, as if they did not possess;
and those who enjoy this world, as if they did not enjoy it. Because the present order of this world is happening.
So I wish they were free of anxiety. The unmarried worries about the things of the Lord, about how to please the Lord;
but the married man cares about the things of life, how he should please his wife,
and his attention is divided [b]. The unmarried, or single, woman cares about the things of the Lord, in order to be consecrated both in body and in spirit. Instead, the married woman takes care of the things of life, of how she is to please her husband.
I say this for your benefit; not to restrict them, but to live honestly, attending to the Lord without hindrance.
If someone considers that his behavior is inappropriate towards his virgin and if he is in his prime and because of this he feels obliged to marry, he can do what he wants; do not commit sin. Get married.
But he who is firm in his heart, having no need, but who has dominion over his own will and thus has determined in his heart to keep her a virgin, will do good.
So he who marries his virgin does good; and likewise, he who does not marry does better.
The wife is bound as long as her husband lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to marry whoever she wants, as long as it is in the Lord.
But in my opinion, the happier you will be if you stay that way. And I think that I also have the Spirit of God.