May every man consider us this way: as servants of Christ and administrators of the mysteries of God.
Now, it is also required of the administrators that each one be found faithful.
As for me, it is of little importance that I be judged by you, or by any human tribunal; in fact, even I don't judge myself.
Because I am not aware of anything against me; but not because of that I am without fault, because the one who judges me is the Lord.
Therefore do not judge ahead of time, but wait until the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things hidden in darkness and will also reveal the designs of hearts; and then each one will receive his praise from God.
This, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for love of you, so that in us you learn not to exceed what is written, so that neither of you becomes arrogant in favor of one against the other.
Because who distinguishes you? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?
You are already satisfied, you have already become rich, you have already come to reign without us; I wish you had come to reign, so that we also reigned with you.
Because I think that God has exhibited us apostles in the last place, as to those sentenced to death; Because we have become a spectacle for the world, both for angels and for men.
We are fools for the love of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are distinguished, but we are without honor.
Until now, we are hungry and thirsty, we are poorly dressed, we are mistreated and we have nowhere to live;
we exhaust ourselves working with our own hands; when we are abused, we bless; when we are persecuted, we bear it;
when they defame us, we try to reconcile; until now we have become the scum of the world, the waste of everything.
I am not writing this to embarrass you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
For although you have innumerable teachers in Christ, yet you do not have many parents; for in Christ Jesus I begot you through the gospel.
Therefore, I urge you: be imitators of me.
For this reason I have sent Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways, the ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere, in every church.
And some have become arrogant, as if I were not going to come to you.
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wants, and I will know, not the words of the arrogant but their power.
Because the kingdom of God does not consist of words, but in power.
What do you want? Will I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of meekness?