I do not want you to ignore, brothers, that all our parents were under the cloud, and that all of them crossed the sea.
Everyone in Moses was baptized in the cloud and in the sea.
They all ate the same spiritual food.
They all drank the same spiritual drink, because they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them; and the rock was Christ.
However, God was not pleased with most of them; for they were prostrated in the desert.
These things happened as examples for us, so that we would not be greedy for bad things, as they coveted.
Do not be idolaters, as some of them are, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose to have fun.
Nor do we practice sexual immorality, as some of them practiced and in a single day, twenty-three thousand people fell.
Nor should we tempt Christ, as some of them tempted and perished by serpents.
Nor murmur, as some of them murmured and perished by the destroyer.
These things happened to you as examples and are written for our instruction, for us on whom the end of the ages has come.
So, whoever thinks to be firm, see that he does not fall.
No temptation has come upon them that is not human; but faithful is God, who will not allow you to be tempted more than you can bear, but together with the temptation will give the way out, so that you can resist it.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
As to sensible I speak to them; Judge what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?
Since bread is one, we, being many, are one body; because we all share in one bread.
Consider Israel according to the flesh: Do not those who eat of the sacrifices participate in the altar?
What, then, do I mean? That what is sacrificed to idols is something, or that the idol is something?
On the contrary, I say that what the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God. And I don't want you to participate with demons.
They cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. They cannot participate in the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
Or will we make the Lord jealous? Will we be stronger than him?
Everything is lawful for me, but not everything agrees. Everything is lawful for me, but not everything builds.
Let no one seek his own good, but the good of the other.
Eat everything that is sold in the butcher shop, without asking anything for reasons of conscience;
for the earth is the Lord's and its fullness.
If some non-believer invites you, and they want to go, eat everything that is put before you, without asking anything for reasons of conscience.
But if someone says to you: "This has been sacrificed in a temple," do not eat it, because of the one who declared it and because of conscience.
But I do not mean your conscience, but that of the other. Well, why should my freedom be judged by the conscience of another?
If I participate with thanksgiving, why should I be slandered for what I give thanks for?
So whether you eat or drink, or do something else, do it all for the glory of God.
Do not be offensive to Jews, to Greeks, or to the church of God;
just as in everything I please everyone, not seeking my own benefit but that of many, so that they may be saved.