Because I do not want you to ignore, brothers, that our parents were all under the cloud and they all passed through the sea;
and in Moses all were baptized in the cloud and in the sea;
and they all ate the same spiritual food;
and they all drank the same spiritual drink, because they drank from a spiritual rock that followed them; and the rock was Christ.
However, God was not pleased with most of them, as they lay in the desert.
These things happened as an example to us, so that we would not covet evil, as they lusted after it.
Therefore do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose to play.
Neither let us fornicate, as some of them fornicated, and in one day 23,000 fell.
Nor should we provoke the Lord, as some of them provoked him, and they were destroyed by serpents.
Neither murmur, as some of them murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
These things happened to them as an example, and were written as teaching for us, for whom the end of the ages has come.
Therefore, whoever believes he is firm, be careful lest he fall.
No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to men; and faithful is God, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear, but with temptation will also provide the way of escape, so that you can resist it.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
I speak to you as wise; judge what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not the participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not the participation in the body of Christ?
Since the bread is one, we, who are many, are one body; for we all share in that same bread.
Consider the people of Israel: do those who eat the sacrifices not partake of the altar?
What do I mean then? That what is sacrificed to idols is something, or that an idol is something?
No, but I say that what the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to the demons and not to God; I don't want you to be partakers with demons.
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
Or will we make the Lord jealous? Are we perhaps stronger than Him?
Everything is lawful, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is lawful, but not everything builds.
Let no one seek his own good, but that of his neighbor.
Eat everything that is sold in the butcher shop without asking anything for reasons of conscience;
for the earth is the Lord's and everything in it.
If any unbeliever invites you and you want to go, eat everything that is put before you without asking anything for reasons of conscience.
But if someone says to you: This has been sacrificed to idols, do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for reasons of conscience; for the earth is the Lord's and everything in it.
I mean, not your conscience, but that of the other; for why should my freedom be judged by the conscience of others?
If I participate gratefully, why should I be censored for what I am thankful for?
So whether you eat, drink, or do anything else, do it all for the glory of God.
Be not a stumbling block to Jews, to Greeks, or to the church of God;
just as I also try to please everyone in everything, not seeking my own benefit, but that of many, so that they may be saved.