For I do not want you, brothers, to be unaware that our parents were all under the cloud, and they all passed through the sea;
and all in Moses were baptized in the cloud and in the sea;
and they all ate the same spiritual food;
and they all drank the same spiritual drink, because they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.
But God was not pleased with many of them, so they were stretched out in the desert.
These things happened as an example for us, so that we do not covet bad things, as they covet.
Neither be idolaters, as some of them are, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose to have fun.
Neither let us fornicate, as some of them fornicated, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day.
Let us not tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted him, and perished by serpents.
Neither murmur, as some of them murmured, and perished by the destroyer.
And these things happened to them as an example; and they are written for our admonition, for whom the end of the ages has come.
So, whoever thinks to be firm, see that he does not fall.
No temptation has overtaken you that is not human; But faithful is God, who will not allow you to be tempted more than you can resist, but will also give way together with temptation, so that you can endure.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
As to sensible I speak to you; judge what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?
The bread being one, we, being many, we are one body, because we all share in that same bread.
Look at Israel according to the flesh: Are not those who eat the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
What am I saying then? That the idol is something, or that something is sacrificed to idols?
Rather, I say that what the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God; And I don't want you to become partakers with demons.
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord and of the table of demons.
Or will we make the Lord jealous? Are we stronger than him?
Everything is lawful for me, but not everything agrees; Everything is lawful for me, but not everything builds.
Neither seek their own good, but that of the other.
Of everything that is sold in the butcher shop, eat, without asking anything for reasons of conscience;
for the earth is the Lord's and its fullness.
And if some unbeliever invites you, and you want to go, eat everything that is put before you, without asking anything for reasons of conscience.
But if someone says to you: This was sacrificed to idols; do not eat it, for the sake of the one who declared it, and for reasons of conscience, because the earth and its fullness is the Lord's.
The conscience, I say, not yours, but that of the other. Well, why should my freedom be judged by the conscience of another?
And if I thankfully participate, why should I be censured for what I thank?
If, then, you eat or drink, or do something else, do it all for the glory of God.
Be not a stumbling block to Jews, Gentiles, or the Church of God;
just as I in all things please everyone, not seeking my own benefit, but that of many, so that they may be saved.