May every man consider us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Now, what is required of the stewards is that each one be found faithful.
For me it is little thing to be judged by you or by any human court; for even I do not judge myself.
I am not aware of anything against me, but I have not been justified for that; for it is the Lord who judges me.
So do not judge anything before time, until the Lord comes, who at the same time will bring out the hidden things of darkness and make evident the intentions of the hearts. Then each will have praise from God.
Brethren, I have applied all this to me and Apollos as an example for your sake, so that they learn in us not to go beyond what is written, and so that they are not inflated with arrogance, favoring the one against the other.
Well, who gives you any distinction? What do you have that you have not received? And if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?
They are already satiated; they already got rich; without us they came to reign. If only they reigned so that we would reign with you too!
Because I consider that we, the apostles, have been exhibited last by God, as condemned to death; because we have become a spectacle for the world, for angels and for men.
We are foolish for Christ's sake; you are sensible in Christ. We are weak; you strong. You are distinguished, but we are despised.
Until the present hour we suffer from hunger and thirst, we lack clothes, we are wounded with beatings and nowhere to stay.
We get tired working with our own hands. When we are insulted, we bless; when we are persecuted, we bear it;
When we are slandered, we try to be friendly. Until now we have become the waste of the world, the waste of all.
I am not writing this to embarrass you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
For although they have ten thousand guardians in Christ, they do not have many parents; for in Christ Jesus I begot them through the gospel.
Therefore, I urge you to be imitators of me.
For this reason, I have sent Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord, who will remind you of my actions in Christ Jesus, as I teach him everywhere in all the churches.
But some have swelled with pride, as if I were never to come to you.
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wants, and I will come to know, not the words of those inflated, but their power.
Because the kingdom of God does not consist of words, but in power.
What do they want? May he come to you with a stick, or with love and in a spirit of meekness?