Furthermore, I declare to you, brothers, the gospel that I have preached to you, which you also received, in which you also persevere;
by which also, if you keep the word that I have preached to you, you are saved, if you did not believe in vain.
For first I have taught you what I also received: That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures;
and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures;
and that he appeared to Cephas, and then to twelve.
Later it appeared to more than five hundred brothers at the same time, of whom many still live, and others are already sleeping.
Then he appeared to James, and then to all the apostles.
And to the last of all, as one born out of time, he appeared to me.
Because I am the most insignificant of the apostles, and I am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
But by the grace of God I am what I am; and his grace has not been in vain for me; rather, I have worked more than all of them; although not me, but the grace of God that is with me.
Because, be it me or be them, that's how we preach, and that's how you believed.
And if Christ is preached to be raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection from the dead?
Because if there is no resurrection from the dead, Christ was not resurrected either.
And if Christ is not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.
Furthermore, we are found to be false witnesses of God because we have testified of God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if the dead do not really rise.
For if the dead are not raised, then Christ was not raised either.
And if Christ did not rise, your faith is in vain; you are still in your sins.
Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
If only in this life we ​​have hope in Christ, we are the most worthy of pity of all men.
But now Christ has risen from the dead; and became the firstfruits of those who slept.
Because since death entered through a man, also through a man the resurrection of the dead.
For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
But each one in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; then those who are Christ's, at his coming.
Then the end will come, when I hand over the kingdom to the God and Father, when I have abolished all empire, and all authority, and all power.
For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
And the last enemy that will be destroyed is death.
Because he held all things under his feet. And when he says that all things are subject to him, it is clear that he excepts the one who subjected all things to him.
But after all things are subject to him, then the Son himself will also subject himself to the one who subjected all things to him, so that God may be all in all.
Otherwise, what will those who are baptized for the dead do, if in no way the dead are raised? Why then dead people are baptized?
And why are we in danger at all times?
I assure you, for the glory that I have in you in Christ Jesus, our Lord, that I die every day.
If as a man I fought in Ephesus against the wild beasts, what use is it to me? If the dead do not rise, let us eat and drink, because tomorrow we will die.
Do not be fooled: Bad conversations corrupt good habits.
Watch properly, and do not sin, because some do not know God; to your shame I say it.
But someone will say: How will the dead be resurrected? What body will they come with?
Fool! What you sow is not made alive unless it dies before.
And what you sow is not the body that is to come out, but the bare grain, whether of wheat or other grain;
but God gives the body as he wanted, and each seed its own body.
Not all meat is the same meat; but one meat certainly is that of men, and another meat that of animals, and another that of fish, and another that of birds.
And there are heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies; but certainly one is the glory of the heavenly, and another that of the earthly.
One is the glory of the sun, and another the glory of the moon, and another the glory of the stars, for one star is different from another in glory.
So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it will rise in incorruption;
it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
natural body is sown, spiritual body will resurrect. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.
So it is also written: The first man was made Adam, the living soul; the last Adam, life-giving spirit.
But the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual.
The first man is from the earth, earthly; the second man, who is the Lord, is from heaven.
As the earthly, such also the earthly; and as the heavenly, such also the heavenly.
And just as we have brought the image of the earthly, we will also bring the image of the heavenly.
But this I say, brothers: that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does corruption inherit incorruption.
Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be transformed
in a moment, in the blink of an eye, at the sounding of the final trumpet; for the trumpet will be blown, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be transformed.
Because it is necessary that this corruptible has dressed as incorruption, and this mortal is dressed as immortality.
And when this corruptible has dressed as incorruption, and this mortal has dressed as immortality, then the written word will be fulfilled: Sorbida is death in victory.
Where, O death, is your sting? Where, oh grave, your victory?
The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
But thanks be to God, who gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, my beloved brothers, be firm and constant, growing in the work of the Lord always, knowing that your work in the Lord is not in vain.