Now, as for the offering for the saints, do also as I instructed the churches of Galatia.
On the first day of the week, each of you set aside and keep as you have prospered, so that when I go, no offerings are collected.
And when I arrive, I will send letters whom you have appointed to take your contribution to Jerusalem.
And if it is convenient that I also go, they will go with me.
I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia (for I am going to pass through Macedonia),
and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter there, so that you can direct me where I am going to go.
Well, I don't want to see you now just in passing, because I hope to stay with you for some time, if the Lord allows me.
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost;
for a great door has been opened to me for effective service, and there are many adversaries.
If Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the Lord's work as I do.
Therefore, no one despises him. Rather, send him in peace to come to me, because I am waiting for him with the brothers.
As for our brother Apollos, I very much encouraged him to come to you with the brothers, but in no way did he have the desire to go now; however, he will go when he has a chance.
Be alert, remain firm in the faith, behave manly, be strong.
Let all your things be done with love.
I exhort you, brothers (you already know those of the house of Stephanas, who were the first converts of Achaia, and who have dedicated themselves to the service of the saints),
may you also be in subjection to those who are like them, and to everyone who helps in the work and works.
And I rejoice at the coming of Estéfanas, Fortunato and Acaico, since they have supplied what was lacking on your part.
Because they have recreated my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize such people.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the church that is in their house, greet you very affectionately in the Lord.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
This greeting is from my own handwriting — Pablo.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be anathema. Maranata!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.