But I don't want you to be ignorant, brothers, about spiritual gifts.
They know that when they were Gentiles, they went like dragged after the mute idols.
That is why I let you know that no one, speaking by the Spirit of God, says: "Anatema be Jesus". Nor can anyone say, "Jesus is Lord," but by the Holy Spirit.
Now there is a diversity of gifts; but the Spirit is the same.
There is also a diversity of ministries, but the Lord is the same.
There are also a variety of activities, but the same God is the one who performs all things in everyone.
But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for mutual benefit.
Because one is given a word of wisdom through the Spirit; but to another, the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit;
to another, faith by the same Spirit; and to another, gifts of healing by one Spirit;
to another, doing miracles; to another, prophecy; to another, discernment of spirits; to another, genres of languages; and to another, interpretation of languages.
But all these things are done by the one and the same Spirit, distributing each one in particular as he designates.
Because just as the body is one and has many members, and that all the members of the body, although they are many, are one body, so is Christ.
For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, both Jews and Greeks, both slaves and free; and we were all made to drink of one Spirit.
For the body does not consist of a single member, but of many.
If the foot said: "Because I am not a hand, I am not part of the body", why would it not be part of the body?
And if the ear said: "Because I am not an eye, I am not part of the body", why would it not be part of the body?
If the whole body were an eye, where would the ear be? If it were all ear, where would be the sense of smell?
But now God has placed the members in the body, each one of them, as he wanted.
Because if they were all one member, where would the body be?
But now there are many members and at the same time a single body.
The eye cannot say to the hand: "I have no need of you"; nor the head to the feet: "I have no need of you".
On the contrary, the body members that seem to be the weakest are indispensable.
In addition, to the members of the body that we consider to be of less honor, we clothe them with even more honor; and our less decent members are treated with even more decorum.
Because our most honorable members have no need; but God ordered the body, giving more honor to the one who lacked;
so that there is no disagreement in the body, but that all the members care about each other.
So if a member suffers, all the members will console themselves with it; and if a member receives honor, all the members rejoice with him.
Now you are the body of Christ and its members individually.
God put some in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers; then those who perform miracles, then the gifts of healing, those who help, those who administer, those who have a diversity of languages.
Are they all apostles? All prophets? All teachers? Does everyone do miracles?
Does everyone have gifts of healing? Does everyone speak in tongues? Does everyone interpret?
All in all, long for the best gifts. And now I will show you an even more excellent path: