Be you imitators of me; just as I am of Christ.
I praise them [a] because in everything they remember me and retain the teachings transmitted [b] just as I gave them to them.
But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and man is the head of woman, and God is the head of Christ.
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered reproaches his head.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered, reproaches her head, because it does not matter if she had shaved.
Because if the woman doesn't cover herself, all her hair will be cut; And if it is embarrassing to cut your hair or shave, let it be covered.
Man is not to cover his head, because he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man.
Because the man does not come from the woman, but the woman from the man.
Furthermore, man was not created because of woman, but woman because of man.
Therefore, the woman must have a sign of authority on her head because of the angels.
However, in the Lord neither man exists apart from woman nor woman exists apart from man.
For just as woman comes from man, so also man is born of woman; but everything comes from God.
Judge for yourselves: Is it appropriate for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
Does not nature itself teach them that it is dishonorable for man to let his hair grow,
while women are honored to let their hair grow? Because the hair has been given instead of the veil.
However, if someone wants to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor do the churches of God.
But by entrusting them with the following I do not praise them; for they do not meet for the best, but for the worst.
Firstly, because when you meet as a church, I hear that there are dissensions among you, and partly I believe it;
for there must be even partisanships among you, so that those who are approved may appear among you.
Because when they come together in one, that is not to eat the Lord's Supper,
for each one goes ahead to eat his own dinner; and while one is hungry, another is drunk.
Do they not have houses to eat and drink? Or do they belittle the church of God and shame those who do not have? What shall I tell you? Shall I praise them? I do not praise you in this!
Because I received from the Lord the teaching that I have also transmitted to you: that the Lord Jesus, on the night he was delivered, took bread;
and having given thanks, he broke it and said: "Take, eat. This is my body that is broken for you. Do this in memory of me."
He also took the cup after supper, and said, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as many times as you drink it in remembrance of me."
Every time they eat this bread and drink this cup, they announce the Lord's death, until he comes.
So anyone who eats this bread and drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
Therefore each should examine himself, and eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
For he who eats and drinks, not discerning the body, eats and drinks judgment for himself.
So there are many sick and weakened among you, and many sleep.
But if we were to examine ourselves well, we would not be judged.
But being judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, so that we are not condemned with the world.
So, my brothers, when you meet to eat, wait for each other.
If someone is hungry, eat at home so they don't meet for trial. The other things I will put in order when it arrives.