Am I not an apostle? I'm not free? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
If for others I am not an apostle, for you I certainly am, because the seal of my apostolate is you in the Lord.
My defense against those who question me is this:
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
Do we not have the right to bring with us a believing wife, as well as the other apostles, and as the Lord's brothers and as Cephas?
Or only I and Barnabas have no right not to work?
Who goes to war at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Or who feeds the flock, and does not take the milk of the flock?
Do I say this after the manner of men? Does not this also the law?
For in the law of Moses it is written, You shall not muzzle the threshing ox. Does God care about oxen?
Or does it expressly say it for us? For it is written to us: For he who plows must plow with hope; and he who threshes, hoping to receive the fruit.
If we sow the spiritual among you, is it a great thing if we take the material from you?
If others have this right over you, how much more do we? However, we have not used this right, but we bear it all so as not to put any obstacle to the gospel of Christ.
Do you not know that those who work in the sacred eat that of the temple; and that those who serve at the altar participate in the altar?
So also the Lord commanded those who preach the gospel to live by the gospel.
But I have not taken advantage of any of this, nor have I written this to make it happen to me, because I prefer to die before someone deprives me of my glory.
Because if I announce the gospel, I don't have to boast, because necessity is imposed on me; And woe to me if I didn't announce the gospel!
Therefore, if I do it willingly, I will have a reward; but if I do it because it has been imposed on me, the same is a task that has been entrusted to me.
What, then, is my reward? That, preaching the gospel, I freely present the gospel of Christ, so as not to misuse my authority in the gospel.
Therefore, being free of all, I have become a servant of all, to win the greatest number.
I have become the Jews as a Jew, to win the Jews; those who are subject to the law (although I am not subject to the law) as subject to the law, to win over those who are subject to the law;
to those who are without law, as if I were without law (not being without God's law, but under the law of Christ), to win those who are without law.
I have become weak to the weak, to win the weak; I have become all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.
And this I do for the gospel's sake, to become a partaker of it.
Do you not know that those who run in the stadium all really run, but only one takes the prize? Run in such a way that you get it.
And everyone who competes abstains from everything; and they, in truth, to receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible one.
So, I run in this way, not at random; in this way I fight, not like someone who hits the air;
but I hit my body, and put it in bondage, lest, having preached to others, I myself come to be disqualified.