As for the things you wrote me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
However, because of immoralities, that each have his own wife, and each have their own husband.
That the husband fulfill his duty towards his wife, and equally the wife fulfill it with the husband.
The wife has no authority over her own body, but the husband. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife.
Do not deprive each other, except by mutual agreement and for a certain time, to dedicate yourselves to prayer; then come back together so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
But this I say by way of concession, not as an order.
However, I wish that all men were like me. However, each has received from God his own gift, one in one way and another in another.
To singles and widows I say it is good for them if they stay like me.
But if you lack self-control, get married; that it is better to get married than to burn.
I instruct married people, not me, but the Lord: that the wife should not leave her husband
(but if she leaves him, stay unmarried, or else she will reconcile with her husband), and that the husband does not abandon his wife.
But to others I say, not the Lord, that if a brother has a woman who is not a believer, and she agrees to live with him, do not abandon her.
And the woman whose husband is not a believer, and he consents to live with her, does not abandon her husband.
Because the husband who is not a believer is sanctified through his wife; and the woman who is not a believer is sanctified through her believing husband; otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy.
However, if the non-believer separates, let him separate; in such cases the brother or sister is not obligated, but God has called us to live in peace.
Well, how do you know, woman, if you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, if you will save your wife?
Outside of this, as the Lord has assigned each one, as God called each one, so walk. And this I order in all the churches.
Was anyone called already circumcised? Stay circumcised. Was anyone called while uncircumcised? Don't be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of God.
Each one remains in the condition in which he was called.
Were you called being a slave? Do not worry; although if you can get your freedom, prefer it.
For he who was called by the Lord as a slave is freed from the Lord; in the same way, he who was called being free is a slave of Christ.
You were bought for a price; do not become slaves of men.
Brothers, each one remains with God in the condition in which he was called.
As for the maidens, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my opinion as the one who, having received the Lord's mercy, is trustworthy.
So I think this is good in view of the present affliction; that is, that it is good for man to remain as he is.
Are you attached to a woman? Don't try to separate yourself. Are you free from a woman? Don't look for a woman.
But if you marry, you have not sinned; And if a maiden marries, she has not sinned. However, they will have problems in this life, and I want to avoid them.
But this I say, brothers: the time has been shortened; so that from now on those who have a wife are as if they did not have one;
and those who cry, as if they weren't crying; and those who rejoice, as if they did not rejoice; and those who buy, as if they had nothing;
and those who take advantage of the world, as if they did not take full advantage of it; because the appearance of this world is temporary.
But I want you to be free from worry. The bachelor cares about the things of the Lord, how he can please the Lord;
but the married man cares about the things of the world, about how to please his wife,
and their interests are divided. And the woman who is not married and the maiden worry about the things of the Lord, to be holy both in body and in spirit; but the married woman worries about the things of the world, about how to please her husband.
And this I say for your own benefit; not to restrict you, but to promote what is honest and to assure your constant devotion to the Lord.
But if anyone believes that he is not acting correctly with respect to his virgin daughter, if she is of mature age, and if it is necessary that this be done, that she do what she wants, she does not sin; Let him marry.
But he who is firm in his heart, and without any pressure, and has control over his own will, and has decided in his heart to keep his daughter unmarried, will do well.
So both of them, the one who gives his virgin daughter in marriage, does good; and he who does not give it in marriage does better.
The wife is bound while the husband lives; but if the husband dies, he is free to marry whomever he wishes, only in the Lord.
But in my opinion, you will be happier if you stay as you are; And I think I also have the Spirit of God.