So, brothers, when I came to you to announce the mystery [of] God, I did not go with excellence of words or wisdom.
Because I decided not to know anything between you, but Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
And I was among you with weakness, with fear and with much trembling.
Neither my message nor my preaching were with persuasive words of wisdom, but with a demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
so that their faith is not founded on the wisdom of men, but on the power of God.
However, we speak wisdom among those who have reached maturity; but a wisdom, not of this present age, nor of the princes of this age, who perish.
Rather, we speak the wisdom of God in mystery, the hidden wisdom that God predestined from before the centuries for our glory.
None of the princes of this age knew this wisdom; because if they had known her, they would never have crucified the Lord of glory.
Rather, as it is written: Things that the eye has not seen nor the ear heard [c], that have not even arisen in the heart of man, are those that God has prepared for those who love him.
But God revealed them to us by the Spirit; for the Spirit searches everything, even the deep things of God.
For who of men knows the deep things of man, but the spirit of man that is in him? So also, no one has known the deep things of God, but the Spirit of God.
And we have not received the spirit of this world, but the Spirit that comes from God, so that we know the things that God has given us freely.
We are talking about these things, not with the words taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the Spirit, interpreting the spiritual by spiritual means.
But the natural man does not accept the things that are of the Spirit of God, because they are madness; and he cannot understand them, because they must be spiritually discerned.
Instead, the spiritual man judges everything [d], while he is not judged by anyone.
Because who knew the mind of the Lord? Who will instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.