Be imitators of me, just as I am of Christ.
And I praise you, brothers, because in everything you remember me, and you retain the instructions as I taught you.
But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of the woman, and God is the head of Christ.
Every male who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head, because the same is if she had shaved.
Because if the woman doesn't cover her head, cut her hair too; And if it's shameful for a woman to cut her hair or shave, cover up.
For the man is not to cover his head, for he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man,
because the man does not come from the woman, but the woman from the man,
And the man was not created because of the woman, but the woman because of the man.
Therefore, the woman must have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels.
But in the Lord, neither man is without woman, nor woman without man.
For just as woman comes from man, so man is born of woman; but everything comes from God.
Judge for yourselves: Is it appropriate for a woman to pray to God without covering her head?
Does not nature itself teach you that it is dishonorable for a man to let his hair grow?
On the contrary, for women to let their hair grow is honorable, because instead of a veil, hair is given.
With all that, if anyone wants to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor the churches of God.
But in what I announce to you, I do not praise you, because you do not gather for the best, but for the worst.
For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are dissensions among you; and in part I believe it.
For there must be heresies among you, that those who are approved may become manifest among you.
When, therefore, you meet together, this is not eating the Lord's supper.
Because when eating, each one goes ahead to have his own dinner; and one is hungry, and another is drunk.
Well what, don't you have houses where you eat and drink? Or do you belittle the church of God, and shame those who have nothing? What shall I tell you? Shall I praise you? In this I do not praise you.
Because I received from the Lord what I have also taught you: That the Lord Jesus, on the night he was delivered, took bread,
and having given thanks, he broke it and said: Take, eat; this is my body that for you is broken; Do this in remembrance of me.
Likewise, he also took the cup, after having supped, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this every time you drink it, in memory of me.
For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
So anyone who eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily will be blamed for the Lord's body and blood.
Therefore each examine himself, and eat thus of the bread, and drink of the cup.
For he who eats and drinks unworthily, without discerning the body of the Lord, eats and drinks judgment for himself.
Therefore there are many sick and weak among you; and many sleep.
If, then, we were to examine ourselves, we would not be judged.
But being judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, so that we are not condemned with the world.
So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for each other.
If anyone is hungry, eat at home, so that you do not meet for judgment. The other things I will put in order when it arrives.