As for the offering for the saints, do also as I commanded in the churches of Galatia.
Every first day of the week each one of you put aside in your house, keeping what by the goodness of God can, so that when I arrive, then offerings are not collected.
And when I have arrived, I will send those whom you have approved by letter to take your donation to Jerusalem.
And if it is convenient for me to go too, they will go with me.
And I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, because I have to pass through Macedonia.
And it may be that I will stay with you, or that perhaps the winter will pass as well, so that you can direct me wherever I have to go.
Because I don't want to see you now in passing, because I hope to be with you for a while, if the Lord allows it.
But I will be in Ephesus until Pentecost,
Because a great and effective door has been opened to me, and many are the adversaries.
And if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; because he also does the Lord's work just like me.
Therefore, no one has you in little; but send him in peace, so that he may come to me, because I am waiting for him with the brothers.
About Brother Apollos, I have very much begged him to come to you with the brothers; but in no way was he willing to go for now; but he will go when he has a chance.
Watch, stand firm in the faith; Be manly, and be strong.
All your things are done with charity.
And I beg you, brothers (you already know that those of the house of Estéfanas are the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints),
that you be subject to such people, and to all who help and work.
I rejoice in the coming of Estéfanas and Fortunato and Acaico, because they have supplied what was lacking on your part.
Because they have recreated my spirit and yours; recognize, then, such persons.
The churches of Asia greet you. They greet you very much in Lord Aquila and Priscilla, with the church that is in their house.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
I, Pablo, write this greeting to you in my own handwriting.
He who does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, be anathema. Maranata!
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
My love in Christ Jesus be with you all. Amen.