As for the things you wrote me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
But because of fornication, each one has his wife, and each one has his husband.
The husband fulfills the conjugal duty with the wife, and also the wife with the husband.
The wife does not have power over her own body, but the husband; nor does the husband have power over his own body, but the wife.
Do not deny each other, unless for a time of mutual consent, to engage in fasting and prayer; and come together again into one, so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
But this I say by way of concession, not by command.
I would rather that all men were like me; but each one has his own gift from God; one to the truth in one way, and another in another.
So I say to singles and widows, it would be good for them to stay like me.
But if you lack self-control, get married; that it is better to get married than to burn.
And those who are united in marriage, I command, not me, but the Lord: That the wife does not separate from the husband;
and if she separates, stay unmarried, or reconcile with her husband; and that the husband does not abandon his wife.
And to others I say, not the Lord: If any brother has a wife who is not a believer, and she agrees to live with him, do not abandon her.
And if a woman has a non-believing husband, and he agrees to live with her, do not abandon him.
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife by the husband; otherwise your children would be impure; while now they are holy.
But if the unbeliever separates, separate, because the brother or sister is not subject to servitude in such a case, but God called us to peace.
Because how do you know, oh woman, if perhaps you will save your husband? Or how do you know, oh husband, if perhaps you will save your wife?
But to each one as the Lord distributed, and as God called each one, so do. And so I prescribe it in all churches.
Was anyone called already circumcised? Stay circumcised. Was any uncircumcised called? Don't be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; but the observance of God's commandments.
Each one in the calling in which he was called, stay in him.
Were you called being a slave? Do not worry; but also, if you can become free, try it.
For he who is called in the Lord as a slave is freed from the Lord; likewise, he who is called being free is a slave of Christ.
For price you are bought; do not become slaves of men.
Each one, brothers, in the call in which he was called, so remain with God.
As for those who are virgins, I have no command from the Lord; but I give my opinion, as one who has obtained mercy from the Lord to be faithful.
So I consider this to be good because of the difficulty that is pressing, that it is good for a man to stay like this.
Are you tied to a wife? Don't try to separate yourself. Are you free from a woman? Do not seek a wife.
But also if you marry, you do not sin; and if the maiden marries, she does not sin; but such will have affliction of the flesh, and I would like to avoid it.
But this I say, brothers: Time is short; It remains, then, that those who have a wife are as if they did not have them,
and those who cry, as if they weren't crying; and those who rejoice, as if they were not rejoicing; and those who buy, as if they did not possess;
and those who enjoy the things of this world, as if they did not enjoy them, because the present form of this world will pass.
So I wish you were without grief. The bachelor worries about the things that are of the Lord, about how to please the Lord;
but the married worries about the things that are of the world, about how to please his wife.
There is also a difference between the married and the maiden: the maiden cares about the things of the Lord, to be holy both in body and spirit; but the married woman worries about the things of the world, about how to please her husband.
I say this for your benefit; not to restrict you, but for what is honest and decent, and so that you dedicate yourselves without hindrance to the Lord.
But, if it seems to somebody that he does not behave correctly with respect to his maid, who is already of age, and that it is convenient for something to be done, do what you want, do not sin; get married.
But he who is firm in his heart, and has no need, but dominates his will, and has determined in his heart to keep his maiden, he does well.
So, the one who is given in marriage does well; and the one that does not occur in marriage, does better.
The married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives; but if her husband dies, she is free to marry whoever she wants, as long as it is in the Lord.
But, in my opinion, it will be more fortunate if it stays like this; and I think that I also have the Spirit of God.