Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
I praise you because in everything you remember me and keep the traditions firmly, just as I gave them to you.
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man, and the head of Christ is God.
Every man who covers his head while praying or prophesying dishonors his head.
But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying dishonors her head; because one is made with the one that is shaved.
Because if the woman does not cover her head, she will also cut her hair; but if it is dishonorable for a woman to cut her hair, or to shave, that she cover herself.
For man should not cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man.
Because the man does not come from the woman, but the woman from the man;
for indeed man was not created because of woman, but woman because of man.
Therefore, the woman must have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.
However, in the Lord, neither woman is independent of man, nor is man independent of woman.
For just as woman comes from man, so also man is born of woman; and all things come from God.
Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
Does not nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair it is a disgrace to him,
But what if the woman has long hair is a glory to her? Well, her hair is given as a veil.
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor do the churches of God.
But in giving you these instructions, I do not praise you, for you do not gather together for good, but for evil.
Well, first of all, I hear that when you come together as a church there are divisions between you; and in part I believe it.
For it is necessary that there be sides among you, so that those who are approved may appear among you.
So when you come together, this is no longer eating the Lord's supper,
because when eating, each one takes his own dinner first; and one goes hungry and another gets drunk.
Than? Don't you have houses to eat and drink? Or do you belittle the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I tell you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you.
For I received from the Lord the same thing that I have taught you: that the Lord Jesus, on the night that he was delivered, took bread,
and after giving thanks, he broke it and said: This is my body that is for you; Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way he also took the cup after supper, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this as many times as you drink it in memory of me.
Because every time you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord until He comes.
So whoever eats the bread or drinks the Lord's cup unworthily will be guilty of the Lord's body and blood.
Therefore, each examine himself, and then eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
For he who eats and drinks without properly discerning the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment for himself.
For this reason there are many weak and sick among you, and many sleep.
But if we were to judge ourselves, we would not be judged.
But when we are judged, the Lord disciplines us so that we are not condemned with the world.
So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for each other.
If anyone is hungry, eat at home, so that you do not meet for judgment. The rest of the business I'll arrange when I go.