Follow the love; and long for spiritual gifts, but above all, prophesy.
For he who speaks in a language does not speak to men but to God; because nobody understands him, because in spirit he speaks mysteries.
Instead, he who prophesies speaks to men for edification, exhortation, and consolation.
He who speaks in a language edifies himself, while he who prophesies edifies the church.
So, I want you all to speak in tongues, but more, to prophesy; for greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets them, that the church may receive edification.
Now then, brothers, if I were to speak to you in tongues, of what benefit would it be to you, if I did not speak to you with revelation, or with knowledge, or with prophecy, or with teaching?
Even inanimate things like the flute or the harp, when they produce sound, if they don't make clear distinction of tones, how will you know what is played with the flute or played with the harp?
Also, if the trumpet makes an uncertain sound, who will prepare for battle?
So you too, if by means of language you do not produce understandable words, how will you understand what is said? Because they will be talking on the air.
There is, for example, so much diversity of languages ​​in the world; and none is without meaning.
Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be like a foreigner to the one who speaks, and the one who speaks will be like a foreigner to me.
So also you; since you long for spiritual gifts, seek to abound in them for the edification of the church.
So, whoever speaks in a language, pray that you can interpret it.
Because if I pray in a language, my spirit prays; but my understanding remains without fruit.
So? I will pray with the spirit, but I will also pray with the understanding. I will sing with the spirit, but I will also sing with the understanding.
For otherwise, if you give thanks with the spirit, how will he who takes the place of the unlearned say "amen" to your thanksgiving, since he does not know what you are saying?
Because you, in truth, express thanksgiving well, but the other is not edified.
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.
However, in the church I prefer to speak five words with my sense, so that it also teaches others, than ten thousand words in one language.
Brothers, do not be children in the understanding; rather, be babies in malice, but mature men in understanding.
In the law it is written: In other languages ​​and with other lips I will speak to these people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.
So tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for non-believers; instead, prophecy is not for non-believers, but for believers.
So if the whole church comes together in one place and they all speak in tongues, and unlearned or unbelievers come in, won't they say they're crazy?
But if everyone prophesies, and some non-believer or uneducated enters, he will be convinced by everyone, he will be examined by everyone,
and what is hidden in his heart will be revealed. And in this way, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare: "Indeed, God is among you!".
What does this mean, brothers? That when you meet, each of you has a psalm, or a teaching, or a revelation, or a language, or an interpretation. Everything is done for the building.
If someone speaks in one language, speak two or at most three, and in turn; and one interprets.
And if there is no interpreter, let him remain silent in the church and speak to himself and to God.
Similarly, the prophets speak two or three, and the others discern.
If something is revealed to one who is sitting, let the first be silent.
Because everyone can prophesy one by one, so that everyone learns and everyone is exhorted.
Furthermore, the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets;
because God is not God of disorder, but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
women remain silent in congregations; because they are not allowed to speak, but are subject, as the law also says.
If you want to learn about something, ask your own husbands at home; because it is improper for a woman to speak in the congregation [b].
Did the word of God come from you? Or did it come to you alone?
If someone believes himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, recognize that what I am writing to you is a commandment.
But if someone ignores him, he will be ignored.
So, my brothers, long to prophesy; and do not prevent speaking in tongues.
But do everything decently and in order.