So let men keep us as ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Now, it is required of the stewards that each one be found faithful.
I have very little to be judged by you, or by a human tribunal; And I don't even judge myself.
Because although I have no bad conscience, I am not justified for that; but the one who judges me is the Lord.
So, do not judge anything before time, until the Lord comes, who will also clarify the hidden of the darkness, and will manifest the intentions of the hearts; and then each one will receive praise from God.
But this, brethren, I have applied figuratively to me and Apollos for your love, so that in us you learn not to go beyond what is written, lest on account of one, you should be puffed up against one other.
Because who sets you apart? Or what do you have that you have not received? And if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?
You are already satisfied, you are already rich, and without us you reign; And I wish you would reign, that we might also reign together with you.
Because according to what I think, God has shown us the apostles as the last, as sentenced to death; because we are made spectacle to the world, and to angels and men.
We are foolish for the love of Christ, and you are prudent in Christ; we weak and you strong; you noble and we despised.
Until this hour we are hungry, and we are thirsty, and we are naked, and we are slapped and we have nowhere to live;
and we get tired, working with our own hands; they curse us, and we bless; we suffer persecution, and we suffer it.
We are defamed, and we respond with kindness; until now we have become the scum of the world, the waste of all.
I am not writing this to embarrass you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
For even if you have ten thousand ayos in Christ, you will not have many parents, because in Christ Jesus I begot you through the gospel.
Therefore, I beg you to imitate me.
For this reason I have sent Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, in the way that I teach everywhere and in all the churches.
But some are puffed up, as if I would never come to you.
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wants, and I will know, not the words of those who are puffed up, but the power.
Because the kingdom of God does not consist of words, but in power.
What do you want? Will I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of meekness?