Now I let you know, brothers, the gospel that I preached to you, which you also received, in which you are also firm,
by which you also are saved, if you keep the word that I preached to you, unless you have believed in vain.
For I delivered to you first of all that which I received: that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;
that he was buried and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures;
that he appeared to Cephas and then to twelve;
then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at the same time, most of whom still live, but some already sleep;
then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles,
and to the last of all, like one born out of time, he also appeared to me.
Because I am the most insignificant of the apostles, I am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace towards me was not in vain; rather I have worked much more than all of them, although not me, but the grace of God in me.
However, whether it was me or them, that's how we preach and that's how you believed.
Now if Christ is preached to be raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
And if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has risen;
and if Christ is not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.
Furthermore, we are found to be false witnesses of God, because we have testified against God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead do not rise.
For if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ is risen;
and if Christ is not risen, your faith is false; you are still in your sins.
Then also those who have slept in Christ have perished.
If we have waited in Christ for this life only, we are, of all men, the most worthy of pity.
But now Christ has risen from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
Because since death entered through a man, also through a man came the resurrection of the dead.
For just as in Adam all die, in Christ also all will be made alive.
But each one in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; then those who are Christ's at his coming;
then the end will come, when He hands over the kingdom to the God and Father, after He has abolished all dominion and all authority and power.
For Christ must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
And the last enemy that will be abolished is death.
Because God has put everything in subjection under his feet. But when he says that all things are subject to him, it is evident that the one who has subjected all things to him is excepted.
And when everything has been submitted to Him, then the Son himself will also subject himself to the one who subjected all things to Him, so that God may be all in all.
If not, what will those who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are not raised at all, why, then, are they baptized for them?
And also, why are we in danger at all times?
I assure you, brothers, for the satisfaction I feel for you in Christ Jesus our Lord, that every day I am in danger of death.
If for human reasons I fought beasts in Ephesus, what use is it to me? If the dead do not rise, let us eat and drink, that tomorrow we will die.
Don't be fooled: "Bad company corrupts good habits."
Be sober, as it is convenient, and stop sinning; because some have no knowledge of God. To your shame I say it.
But someone will say: How do the dead rise? And what kind of body do they come with?
Foolish! What you sow does not come to life if it does not die before;
And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be born, but the bare grain, perhaps of wheat or some other species.
But God gives a body as He wanted, and each seed its own body.
Not all meat is the same meat, but one is that of men, another that of beasts, another that of birds and another that of fish.
There are, likewise, heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is one, and that of the earthly is another.
There is a glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star is distinct from another star in glory.
So is also the resurrection of the dead. A corruptible body is sown, an incorruptible body is resurrected;
it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
a natural body is sown, a spiritual body is resurrected. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
So it is also written: The first man, Adam, was made a living soul. The last Adam, spirit that gives life.
However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual.
The first man is from the earth, earthly; the second man is from heaven.
As is the earthly, so also are those who are earthly; and as the heavenly is, so also are the heavenly.
And just as we have brought the image of the earthly, we will also bring the image of the heavenly.
And this I say, brothers: that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; nor what is corrupted inherits the incorruptible.
Behold, I tell you a mystery: we will not all sleep, but we will all be transformed
in a moment, in the blink of an eye, to the final trumpet; for the trumpet will sound and the dead will rise incorruptible, and we will be transformed.
For this corruptible must dress as incorruption, and this mortal must dress as immortality.
But when this corruptible has clothed itself with incorruption, and this mortal has clothed itself with immortality, then the written word will be fulfilled: Death has been devoured in victory.
Where is, oh die, your victory? Where, oh grave, your sting?
The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law;
but thank God, who gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be firm, constant, always abounding in the Lord's work, knowing that your work in the Lord is not in vain.