I'm not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
If for others I am not an apostle, certainly for you I am, because you are the seal of my apostolate in the Lord.
This is my defense against all who question me:
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
Do we not have the right to take a believing wife with us, just like the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Peter?
Or only Barnabas and I have no right to stop working?
Who ever serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its fruit? Who feeds the flock and does not take the milk of the flock?
Could it be that I say these things only as a man? Doesn't the law also say so?
For in the law of Moses it is written, You shall not muzzle the threshing ox. Does God care only for the oxen?
Or does it say it entirely for us? Well for us it is written. For he who plows must plow with hope; and he who threshes, hoping to partake of the fruit.
If we have sown spiritual things for you, will it be a great thing if we reap material goods from you?
If others share this right over you, does it not correspond to us more? However, we never use this right; Rather, we endure everything so as not to put any obstacle to the gospel of Christ.
Do you not know that those who work in the sanctuary eat of the things of the sanctuary; that is, those who serve the altar participate in the altar?
So also the Lord commanded those who preach the gospel to live by the gospel.
But I have never taken advantage of any of this, nor have I written about it to do so with me. Well for me it would be better to die, before someone takes away this reason for pride.
Because if I announce the gospel, I have nothing to boast about, because necessity is imposed on me; Well woe to me if I don't announce the gospel!
So if I do it willingly, I will be rewarded; but if I do so reluctantly, I have been entrusted to carry it out anyway.
What, then, is my reward? That preaching the gospel, I can present it freely, so as not to abuse my right in the gospel.
Despite being free of all, I became a servant of all to win more.
For the Jews I became a Jew, in order to win the Jews. Although I myself am not under the law, for those under the law I became as under the law in order to win over those under the law.
To those who are without the law, I acted as if I were without the law (not being without the law of God, but in the law of Christ), in order to win over those who are not under the law.
I made myself weak for the weak, in order to win over the weak. I have become all to all, so that I may save some anyway.
And I do everything for the sake of the gospel, to become a partner in it.
Don't you know that those who run in the stadium all really run, but only one takes the prize? Run in such a way that you get it.
And everyone who fights disciplines himself in everything. They do it to receive a corruptible crown; we, on the other hand, for an incorruptible.
That is why I run like this, not at random; I fight like that, not like someone who hits the air.
Rather, I put my body under discipline and make it obey; lest, after having preached to others, I myself become disqualified.