So I, brothers, could not speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal, as children in Christ.
I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, because you still could not receive it. In truth, even now you cannot,
because you are still carnal. For with jealousy and strife among you, are you not carnal and walk like men?
Because when one says: I am from Paul, and another: I am from Apollos, are you not just men?
What, then, is Apollos? And what is Pablo? Servants through whom you have believed, according to the Lord each one gave opportunity.
I planted, Apollos watered, but God has given the growth.
So neither he who plants nor he who waters is something, but God who gives growth.
Now the one who plants and the one who waters are the same thing, but each one will receive his own reward according to his own work.
Because we are God's collaborators, and you are God's farm, God's building.
According to the grace of God that was given to me, I, as a wise architect, laid the foundation, and another builds on it. But each be careful how he builds on top.
For no one can lay any other foundation than that which is already laid, which is Jesus Christ.
Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw,
each one's work will become evident; for the day will make it known, for it will be revealed with fire; the fire itself will test the quality of each person's work.
If the work of one who has built on the foundation remains, you will receive a reward.
If anyone's work is consumed by fire, he will suffer loss; yet he will be saved, though as by fire.
Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him, because the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are.
No one fool themselves. If any of you think you are wise according to this world, become foolish in order to become wise.
Because the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written: HE IS THE ONE WHO TAKES THE WISE IN HIS OWN WRONG.
And also: THE LORD KNOWS THE REASONS OF the wise, WHICH ARE USELESS.
So no one brags about men, because everything is yours:
be it Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future, everything is yours,
and you of Christ, and Christ of God.