Look how great love the Father has given us so that we are called children of God. And we are! This is why the world does not know us, because it did not know him.
Beloved, we are now children of God, and what we will be has not yet been manifested. But we know that when he is manifested, we will be like him because we will see him as he is.
And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as he is also pure.
Everyone who commits sin also breaks the law, since sin is a violation of the law.
And you know that he was manifested to take away sins and that in him there is no sin.
Everyone who abides in him does not continue to sin. Everyone who continues to sin has neither seen nor known him.
Little children, let no one deceive you. He who practices justice is just, as he is just.
He who practices sin belongs to the devil, because the devil sins from the beginning. For this the Son of God was manifested: to undo the works of the devil.
Everyone who has been born of God does not practice sin because the seed of God remains in him, and he cannot continue sinning because he has been born of God.
In this the sons of God and the sons of the devil are revealed: Everyone who does not practice justice is not of God, nor is he who does not love his brother.
Because this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: that we love each other.
Not like Cain, who was of the evil one and killed his brother. And for what reason did he kill him? Because his works were bad, and his brother's were just.
And don't be amazed, brothers, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brothers. He who does not love [a] remains in death.
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life remaining in him.
In this we have known love: that he laid down his life for us. We too must lay down our lives for the brothers.
But whoever has the goods of this world and sees that his brother is in need and closes his heart, how will the love of God dwell in him?
Little children, let us not love in word or language, but in fact and in truth.
In this we will know that we are of the truth and we will have our trusting heart before him;
In case our heart rebukes us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not rebuke us, we have confidence before God;
and whatever we ask we will receive from him because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing before him.
And this is his commandment: that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and that we love one another, as he has commanded us.
And he who keeps his commandments abides in God, and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us: by the Spirit that he has given us.