Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but discern among the spirits to know if they are from God; because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
In this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God;
and every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it was to come, and that it is now in the world.
Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, because he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.
They are from the world; that's why they talk about the world, and the world hears them.
We are from God; He who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. In this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is from God. Everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
He who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
In this, God's love for us was shown: in that God sent his Only Begotten Son into the world so that we live through him.
This is love: not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
Beloved, if God has so loved us, we too must love one another.
No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God remains in us, and his love has been perfected in us.
By this we know that we abide in him, and he in us, in that he has given us of his Spirit.
And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world.
Everyone who confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love; and he who abides in love abides in God, and God in him.
In this love has been perfected in us, so that we have confidence in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear brings punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
We love him, because he loved us first.
If anyone says: I love God, but he hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?
And we have this commandment from him: He who loves God, also love his brother.