Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God; And everyone who loves the one who begot also loves the one who has been begotten by him.
In this we know that we love the children of God: that we love God and keep his commandments.
For this is love of God: that we keep his commandments; and his commandments are not burdensome.
Because everything that has been born of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory that overcomes the world: our faith.
Who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is Jesus Christ, who came by water and blood; not by water alone, but by water and blood. And the Spirit is the one that bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
For there are three who bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit; and these three are one.
And there are three who bear witness on earth: the Spirit, the water and the blood; and these three agree on one.
If we receive the testimony of men, the greater is the testimony of God; because this is the testimony of God: that he has testified of his Son.
He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself; He who does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given of his Son.
And this is the testimony: That God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have life.
These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may believe in the name of the Son of God.
And this is the confidence we have in him: that if we ask for something according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have made to him.
If anyone sees his brother commit a sin other than death, he will ask, and life will be given, I say, to those who commit a sin other than death. There is a sin of death, for which I do not say to pray.
All evil is sin, but there is sin not of death.
We know that everyone who is born of God does not sin, but he who is begotten by God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
We know that we are from God and that the whole world lies in evil.
However, we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding to know the true one; and we are in the one who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.