My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
He himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for those of the whole world.
And in this we know that we have come to know him: if we keep his commandments.
He who says: I have come to know him, and does not keep his commandments, is a liar and the truth is not in him;
but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
He who says he abides in Him must walk as He walked.
Beloved, I am not writing you a new commandment, but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word that you have heard.
On the other hand, I am writing you a new commandment, which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing, and the true light is already shining.
He who says he is in the light, and hates his brother, is still in darkness.
He who loves his brother remains in the light and there is no cause for stumbling in him.
But he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
I am writing to you, children, because your sins have been forgiven by name.
I am writing to you, parents, because you know who has been from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I have written to you, children, because you know the Father.
I have written to you, parents, because you know who has been from the beginning. I have written to you, young people, because you are strong and the word of God remains in you and you have overcome the evil one.
Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the Father's love is not in him.
Because everything in the world, the passion of the flesh, the passion of the eyes and the arrogance of life, does not come from the Father, but from the world.
And the world passes, and also its passions, but the one who does the will of God remains forever.
Little children, it is the last hour, and just as you heard that the antichrist is coming, also now many antichrists have arisen; that's why we know it is the last hour.
They came out of us, but in reality they were not of us, because if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they came out, in order to show that not all of them belong to us.
But you have anointing of the Saint, and all of you know it.
I have not written to you because you ignore the truth, but because you know it and because no lie comes from the truth.
Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
Anyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son also has the Father.
As for you, let what you heard from the beginning remain in you. If what you heard from the beginning remains in you, you will also remain in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise that He himself made to us: eternal life.
I have written these things to you concerning those who are trying to deceive you.
And as for you, the anointing that you received from Him remains in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you; But just as His anointing teaches you about all things, and it is true and not a lie, and just as He has taught you, you remain in Him.
And now, children, remain in Him, so that when He manifests Himself, we have confidence and do not shy away from Him in His coming.
If you know that He is just, you also know that everyone who does justice is born of Him.