Look how great love the Father has given us so that we may be called children of God! This is why the world does not know us, because it did not know him.
Beloved, we are now children of God, and what we are to be has not yet been manifested; but we know that when he appears, we will be like him, because we will see him as he is.
And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as he is pure.
Everyone who commits sin also breaks the law, since sin is a transgression of the law.
And you know that he appeared to take away our sins, and that there is no sin in him.
Everyone who abides in him does not sin; everyone who sins has neither seen nor known him.
Little children, let no one deceive you; He who does justice is just, just as he is just.
He who commits sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this the Son of God appeared, to undo the works of the devil.
Everyone who is born of God does not commit sin, because the seed of God remains in him; and he cannot sin, because he was born of God.
In this, a distinction is made between the children of God and the children of the devil: everyone who does not do justice and who does not love his brother is not of God.
Because this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: That we love each other.
Not like Cain, who was of the evil one and killed his brother. And for what reason did he kill him? Because his works were bad, and his brother's were just.
Do not be amazed, my brothers, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brothers. He who does not love his brother remains in death.
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer; and you know that no murderer permanently has eternal life in him.
In this we have known the love of God, in which he laid down his life for us; We also have to put our lives for our brothers.
But whoever has the goods of this world, and sees his brother in need, and closes his heart against him, how can the love of God dwell in him?
My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in fact and in truth.
And in this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will have our trusting hearts before him.
For if our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts, and he knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;
and whatever we ask, we will receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing before him.
And this is his commandment: That we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and that we love one another as he has commanded us.
And he who keeps his commandments abides in God, and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit that he has given us.