Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see if they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
In this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God;
and every spirit that does not confess Jesus, is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and that it is now in the world.
My children, you are from God and you have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.
They are from the world; that's why they speak for the world, and the world hears them.
We are from God; He who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. In this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
He who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
In this the love of God was manifested in us: in that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we live through Him.
This is love: not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
Beloved, if God so loved us, we too must love one another.
No one has ever seen God. If we love each other, God remains in us and his love is perfected in us.
In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us: in that he has given us of his Spirit.
And we have seen and bear witness that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world.
Anyone who confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
And we have come to know and have believed the love that God has for us. God is love, and he who remains in love remains in God and God remains in him.
In this love is perfected in us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, for as He is, so we also are in this world.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not made perfect in love.
We love, because He first loved us.
If anyone says: I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.
And this commandment we have from Him: that he who loves God, also loves his brother.