Beloveds, do not believe every spirit, but test whether the spirits are from God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
In this know the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh comes from God,
and every spirit that does not confess Jesus [a] does not come from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it was to come and is now in the world.
Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world.
They are from the world; therefore, what they speak is the world, and the world hears them.
We are from God, and he who knows God hears us; and he who is not of God does not hear us. In this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is from God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
He who does not love has not known God, because God is love.
In this, God's love for us was shown: in that God sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we live for him.
This is love: not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son in atonement for our sins.
Beloved, since God so loved us, we too must love one another.
No one has ever seen God. If we love each other, God remains in us and his love has been perfected in us.
In this we know that we abide in him and he in us: in that he has given us of his Spirit.
And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
He who confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love. And he who abides in love abides in God and God abides in him.
In this the love between us has been perfected so that we have confidence in the day of judgment: that as he is, so are we in this world.
In love there is no fear but perfect love casts out fear. For fear carries punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
We love [b] because he first loved us.
If someone says "I love God" and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love [c] God whom he has not seen.
And we have this commandment from him: He who loves God also loves his brother.