Look how great love the Father has bestowed on us, so that we may be called children of God; and that we are. This is why the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
Beloved, we are now children of God and what we will be has not yet been manifested. But we know that when He appears, we will be like Him because we will see Him as He is.
And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.
Everyone who practices sin also practices breaking the law, since sin is breaking the law.
And you know that He manifested Himself in order to take away sins, and in Him there is no sin.
Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has neither seen nor known him.
My children, let no one deceive you; He who practices justice is just, just as He is just.
He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God manifested himself for this purpose: to destroy the works of the devil.
No one who is born of God practices sin, because the seed of God remains in him; and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
In this the children of God and the children of the devil are recognized: everyone who does not practice justice is not of God; Neither does he who does not love his brother.
Because this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: that we love each other;
not like Cain who was of the evil one, and he killed his brother. And for what reason did he kill him? Because his works were bad, and his brother's were just.
Brothers, do not marvel if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brothers. He who does not love remains in death.
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has permanent eternal life in him.
In this we know love: in that He laid down his life for us; We also have to put our lives for our brothers.
But whoever has the goods of this world, and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how can the love of God dwell in him?
Children, let us not love in word or language, but in fact and in truth.
In this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will secure our hearts before Him
in whatever our hearts condemn us; because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;
and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing before him.
And this is his commandment: that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and that we love one another as he has commanded us.
He who keeps his commandments abides in him and God in him. And in this we know that He abides in us: by the Spirit who has given us.