Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the one who begot also loves the one who is born of him.
In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and keep his commandments.
For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.
Because everything that has been born of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory that has overcome the world: our faith.
Who is the one who overcomes the world but the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is Jesus Christ, the one who came by water and blood [a]; not for water only but for water and blood. And the Spirit is the one that bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
Because there are three who bear witness:
the Spirit, the water and the blood; and these three agree on one.
If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater; because this is the testimony of God: that he has given testimony about his Son.
He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself; He who does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given about his Son.
And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have life.
These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you know that you have eternal life.
And this is the confidence we have before him: that if we ask for something according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have made to him.
If anyone sees that his brother commits sin that is not of death, he will ask, and he will be given life; I mean, those who do not sin to the death. There is a sin of death about which I do not say to ask.
All evil is sin, but there is sin that is not death.
We know that everyone who has been born of God does not continue to sin; rather, the One who was begotten of God keeps it and the evil one does not touch it.
We know that we are from God and that the whole world is under the evil one.
However, we know that the Son of God is present and has given us understanding to know the true one; and we are in the true one, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
Little children, beware of idols.