My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have a lawyer before the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
He is the atonement for our sins, and not only for ours but also for those of the whole world.
In this we know that we have known him: in that we keep his commandments.
He who says "I know him" and does not keep his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him.
But in him who keeps his word, in him truly the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in it.
He who says he abides in him must walk as he walked.
Beloved, I am not writing you a new commandment but the old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard.
Again I write a new commandment, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing and the true light is already shining.
He who says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness.
He who loves his brother remains in the light and there is no stumbling in him.
But he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness; and he does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
I am writing to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven because of your name.
I am writing to you, parents, because you have known who you are from the beginning. I am writing to you young people because you have overcome the evil one. I have written to you, little children, because you have known the Father.
I have written to you, parents, because you have known who he is from the beginning. I have written to you young men, because you are strong, and the word of God remains in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him
because everything in the world - the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of the eyes and the pride of life - does not come from the Father but from the world.
And the world is passing and its desires; but he who does the will of God remains forever.
Little children, it is the last hour; and as they heard that the antichrist was to come, so also now many antichrists have arisen. By this we know that it is the last hour.
They came out from among us but they were not of us; because if they had been of us they would have remained with us. But they came out to make it clear that not all of them belonged to us.
But you have the anointing from the Saint and you know all things.
I am not writing to you because you do not know the truth but because you know it and because no lie comes from the truth.
Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist: the one who denies the Father and the Son.
Anyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either. He who confesses the Son also has the Father.
Abide in you what you have heard from the beginning. If what you have heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise that he has made to us: eternal life.
I have written this to you about those who deceive you.
And as for you, the anointing that you have received from him remains in you, and you have no need for someone to teach you. But as the same anointing teaches you about all things, and it is true and not false, just as it taught you, abide in it.
Now, little children, remain in him so that when he appears, we will have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming.
If you know that he is just, also know that everyone who does justice is born of him.