Since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same attitude. Because the one who has suffered in the flesh has broken with sin
to live the time that remains in the flesh, not in the passions of men but in the will of God.
Because it is enough to have done in the past the wishes of the Gentiles, having walked in sensuality, low passions, drunkenness, orgies, banquets and abominable idolatries.
It seems strange to them that you no longer run with them in the same debauchery of dissolution, and that is why they outrage you.
They will give an account to who is to judge the living and the dead.
For this is why the gospel has been announced even to the dead, that they may be judged in the flesh as men, but live according to God in the spirit.
The end of all things is at hand. So be wise and sober in prayer.
Above all, have a fervent love among you, because love covers a multitude of sins.
Host each other without gossip.
Each one puts at the service of others the gift he has received, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If someone speaks, speak according to the words of God. If anyone renders service, serve according to the power that God gives you, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom glory and dominion for ever and ever belong. Amen.
Beloved, do not be surprised by the fire that burns between you to test you as if something strange were happening to you.
Rather, rejoice as you partake of the afflictions of Christ, that in the revelation of his glory you may also rejoice.
When you are insulted in the name of Christ, you are blessed because the glorious Spirit of God rests upon you [a].
So, none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or for meddling in other people's affairs.
But if anyone suffers as a Christian, do not be ashamed; rather, glorify God in this name.
Because it is time for the judgment to begin at the house of God. And if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God?
And if the righteous is saved with difficulty, what will the wicked and sinner end up in? [B].
Therefore, those who suffer according to the will of God, who entrust their lives [c] to the faithful Creator doing good.