Likewise, you wives, be subject to your husbands, so that also those who do not believe in the word may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives,
by observing your chaste and respectful conduct.
The decoration of them is not the external one, with ostentatious hairstyles, with gold ornaments or with luxurious clothes,
but the internal one, that of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of a pleasant and peaceful spirit, which is of great esteem before God.
For thus also in ancient times were those holy women who waited on God, being subject to their husbands,
as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; of which you are made daughters, if you do good, without having any fear.
You, husbands, likewise, live with them with understanding, giving honor to the woman as the weakest vessel and as joint heirs of the grace of life, so that your prayers are not hindered.
And finally, all be of the same mind, compassionate, loving you brotherly, merciful, friendly;
not returning evil for evil, nor curse for curse, but on the contrary, blessing, knowing that you were called to inherit blessing.
Because: he who wants to love life, and see good days, restrain his tongue from evil, and his lips do not speak deceit;
turn away from evil, and do good; Look for peace and follow it.
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and their ears are attentive to their prayers; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.
And who is he who can harm you, if you follow good?
But also if you suffer something because of righteousness, blessed are you. Therefore do not be frightened for fear of them or be troubled,
but sanctify God the Lord in your hearts, and always be prepared to respond with meekness and reverence to each one who demands reason of the hope that is in you;
having a good conscience, so that in what they gossip about you as evildoers, those who defame your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed.
Because it is better that you suffer doing good, if God's will wants it, than doing evil.
For Christ also suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust, to bring us to God, being indeed dead in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit;
in which he also went and preached to the imprisoned spirits,
those who were once disobedient, when once waiting for the patience of God in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which few people, namely eight, were saved by water.
The symbol of which corresponds to the baptism that now saves us (not by removing the filthiness of the flesh, but as the request for a good conscience before God) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who, having ascended to heaven, is at the right hand of God, and to him are subject angels, and authorities and powers.