Therefore, rejecting all malice and all deceit, and hypocrisy, envy, and all defamation,
like newborn babies, desire the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow for salvation,
if you have tasted the Lord's kindness.
And coming to Him as a living stone, rejected by men, but chosen and precious before God,
You too, like living stones, be built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood, to offer acceptable spiritual sacrifices to God through Jesus Christ.
For this is found in Scripture: BEHOLD, I PLACE A SELECTED STONE, A PRECIOUS CORNER STONE, AND HE WHO BELIEVES IN HIM SHALL NOT BE ASHAMED.
This precious value is, therefore, for you who believe; but for those who don't believe, THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BEEN A CORNER STONE,
and, TRIPPED STONE AND SCANDAL ROCK; for they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and for this they were also destined.
But you are a chosen lineage, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired for the possession of God, so that you may announce the virtues of the one who called you from darkness to his admirable light;
for you once were not a people, but now you are the people of God; you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.
Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims to abstain from the carnal passions that fight against the soul.
Maintain irreproachable conduct among the Gentiles, so that in what they slander you as evildoers, they, by reason of your good works, in considering them, glorify God on the day of the visitation.
Submit yourselves, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, be it the king, as authority,
or to the governors, as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and praise of those who do good.
Because this is the will of God: that doing good, you make silence the ignorance of the foolish men.
Walk as free, but do not use freedom as a pretext for evil, but use it as servants of God.
Honor everyone, love the brothers, fear God, honor the king.
Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and friendly, but also to those who are unbearable.
Because this finds grace, if for the sake of conscience before God, someone endures penalties suffering unjustly.
For what merit is there, when when you sin and are treated severely, do you bear it with patience? But if when you do good you suffer for it and endure it patiently, it finds grace with God.
Because for this purpose you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his footsteps,
WHO WAS NOT COMMITTED SIN, OR SOME DECEPTION WAS FOUND IN HIS MOUTH;
and who, when they insulted him, did not respond by insulting them; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but was entrusted to the one who judges with justice;
and He Himself bore our sins in His body upon the cross, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by His wounds you were healed.
For you were astray like sheep, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Guardian of your souls.
