Likewise, you women, be subject to your husband so that, if some do not obey the word, you will also be won without a word through the conduct of your women,
by observing their reverent and chaste way of living.
Her adornment is not on the outside, with ostentatious hair arrangements and gold trim, or in fancy clothing;
but be the inner person of the heart in the incorruptible of a tender and calm spirit. This is of great value before God.
Because that is how those holy women who hoped in God and were subject to their own husband also adorned themselves in ancient times.
So Sarah obeyed Abraham calling him lord. And you have become her children if you do good and are not afraid of any threat.
You husbands, in the same way, live with them with understanding, giving honor to the woman as the weakest vessel and as heirs of the grace of life, so that your prayers are not hindered.
Finally, all be of the same mind: compassionate, loving each other fraternally, merciful and humble.
Do not return evil for evil or curse for curse but, on the contrary, bless; for for this they have been called, that they inherit blessing.
Because: He who wants to love life and see good days hold back his tongue from evil, and his lips do not speak deceit.
Get away from evil and do good. Look for peace and follow it.
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are attentive to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil [a].
Who is the one who can harm them if they are passionate about good?
But even if they come to suffer for the sake of justice, they are blessed. Therefore do not be afraid for fear of them or be troubled.
Rather, sanctify Christ as Lord in your heart and always be ready to respond to everyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, but do it with meekness and reverence.
Have a good conscience so that, in what you speak ill [b], those who mock your good way of living in Christ will be ashamed.
Because it is better that they suffer doing good, if the will of God so desires, than doing evil.
For Christ also suffered once for all for sins, the just for the unjust, to bring us to God; being truly dead in the flesh but quickened in the spirit;
in which he also went and preached to the imprisoned spirits
who were once disobedient, when in the days of Noah the patience of God waited while the ark was built. Few people were saved through the ark through the water; that is, eight.
Baptism, which corresponds to this figure, now, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, saves them [c], not by removing impurities from the flesh but as an appeal of a good conscience towards God.
Now he, having ascended to heaven, is at the right hand of God; and angels, authorities, and powers are subject to it.