Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also for the same purpose, because whoever has suffered in the flesh has finished with sin,
to live the time that remains in the flesh, not for human passions, but for the will of God.
Because the time already passed is enough for you to have done what pleases the Gentiles, having walked in sensuality, lusts, drunkenness, orgies, drunkenness and abominable idolatries.
And in all this, they are surprised that you do not run with them in the same debauchery of dissolution, and they outrage you;
but they will give account to him who is prepared to judge the living and the dead.
For to this end the gospel was preached even to the dead, that even though they might be judged in the flesh as men, they might live in the spirit according to the will of God.
But the end of all things is near; So be prudent and sober in your spirit of prayer.
Above all, be fervent in your love for one another, for love covers a multitude of sins.
Be hospitable to each other, without gossip.
As each has received a special gift, use it by serving one another as good stewards of God's manifold grace.
He who speaks, let him speak according to the words of God; He who serves, let him do it for the strength that God gives, so that in all God he may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom glory and dominion for ever and ever belong. Amen.
Beloved, do not be surprised by the trial fire that has come among you to test you, as if something strange is happening to you;
rather, to the extent that you share the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also in the revelation of his glory you rejoice with great joy.
If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Indeed, for them He is blasphemed, but for you He is glorified.
Let no one of you suffer in any way as a murderer, or a thief, or a criminal, or as a busybody.
But if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but as such glorify God.
Because it is time for the judgment to begin at the house of God; And if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God?
AND IF THE JUST WITH DIFFICULTY IS SAVED, WHAT WILL BECOME THE WICKED AND THE SINNER?
Therefore, those who suffer according to the will of God, entrust their souls to the faithful Creator, doing good.