Peter, apostle of Jesus Christ; to the dispersed expats in Ponto, Galacia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia,
chosen according to the prior knowledge of God the Father by the sanctification of the Spirit to obey Jesus Christ and be sprinkled with his blood: Grace and peace be multiplied to them.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has made us be born again for a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead;
for an incorruptible, uncontaminable and unstoppable inheritance reserved in heaven for you [a],
that they are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation prepared to be revealed in the end time.
In this they rejoice, even though for now, if necessary, they are momentarily afflicted by various tests,
so that the proof of their faith - more precious than the gold that perishes, even if it be tasted with fire - be found worthy of praise, glory and honor in the revelation of Jesus Christ.
They love him without having seen him. In him they believe, and though they do not see him now, believing in him they rejoice with joy unspeakable and glorious,
thus obtaining the end of his faith: the salvation of his life [b].
The prophets who prophesied of the grace that was destined for you have diligently inquired and investigated about this salvation.
They searched to see what person and what time indicated the Spirit of Christ that was in them, who predicted the afflictions that were to come to Christ and the glories after them.
It was revealed to them that, not for themselves but for you [c], they administered the things that have now been announced to you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven; things that even angels long to contemplate.
So, with your mind ready to act and being sober, put your hope completely in the grace that is brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ.
As obedient children, do not settle for the passions that you previously had in your ignorance.
Rather, just as the one who called you is holy, may you also be holy in every aspect of your way of living
because it is written: Be holy because I am holy [d].
And if you invoke as Father the one who judges according to the work of each one without making any distinction of persons, lead yourselves in fear all the time of your pilgrimage.
Keep in mind that they have been rescued from their vain way of life, which they inherited from their parents, not with corruptible things like gold or silver
but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without spot and without contamination.
He was indeed destined since before the foundation of the world, but he has been manifested in recent times because of you.
Through him they believe in God, who raised him from the dead and has given him glory so that his faith and hope are in God.
Having purified your life in obedience to the truth for unfeigned brotherly love, love one another ardently and with a pure heart;
for they have been born again, not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible, through the word of God that lives and remains [e].
Because: All flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of grass. The grass dries up, and the flower falls off;
but the word of the Lord remains forever. This is the word of the gospel that has been announced to you.