So rejecting all malice, and all deceit, and hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander,
desire, like newborn babies, pure spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow for salvation,
if you have tasted the Lord's kindness.
Approaching you, living stone, certainly rejected by men, but chosen and precious before God,
You too, like living stones, be built up like a spiritual house, and a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices, pleasing to God through Jesus Christ.
For this reason the Scripture also contains: Behold, I place in Zion the main corner stone, chosen, precious; And whoever believes in him will not be ashamed.
He is therefore honor to you who believe; but for the disobedient, the stone that the builders rejected, this has become the head of the angle,
and a stumbling block and a rock of scandal for those who, being disobedient, stumble at the word, for which they were also appointed.
But you are a chosen lineage, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired by God, so that you may announce the virtues of the one who has called you from darkness to his admirable light.
You who in the past were not a people, but who are now God's people; that in the past time you had not reached mercy, but now you have reached mercy.
Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims to abstain from the carnal desires that battle against the soul,
maintaining your exemplary conduct among the Gentiles, so that, in what they gossip about you as evildoers, they glorify God on the day of the visitation, when considering your good works.
For the Lord's sake, then, be subject to all human authority, be it the king as superior,
and to the governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of those who do good.
For this is the will of God: that by doing good you silence the ignorance of foolish men;
act as free, and not as those who have liberty as a pretext to do evil, but as servants of God.
Honor everyone. Love the brothers. Fear God. Honor the king.
Servants, be subject with all respect to your masters; not only the good and affable, but also the rigorous ones.
Because this is commendable: that someone because of conscience before God suffers discomfort, suffering unjustly.
For what merit does it have if by sinning you are slapped and bear it with patience? But if in doing good you are afflicted and endure it patiently, this is certainly pleasing before God.
Because for this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, so that you follow his steps;
who did not commit sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth;
who when cursed did not respond with a curse; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but was entrusted to those who judge fairly.
He himself carried our sins in his body on the tree, so that we, being dead to sins, might live to justice. By his wounds you have been healed.
Because you were like lost sheep, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.