Peter, Apostle of Jesus Christ: To the expatriates, from the scattered Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, chosen
according to the prior knowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to obey Jesus Christ and be sprinkled with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy, has made us be born again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
to obtain an incorruptible inheritance, immaculate, and that will not wither, reserved in heaven for you,
that you are protected by the power of God through faith, for the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time.
In which you rejoice greatly, although now, for a little while if necessary, you are afflicted with various tests,
so that the proof of your faith, more precious than the gold that perishes, although tested by fire, may be found that results in praise, glory and honor in the revelation of Jesus Christ;
Whom you have not seen, you love, and whom you do not see now, but believe in Him, and rejoice greatly with joy unspeakable and full of glory,
obtaining, as a result of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
About this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, diligently inquired and inquired,
seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ indicated within them, predicting the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow.
It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, in these things that have now been announced to you by those who preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven; things angels long to look at.
Therefore gird your understanding for action; be sober in spirit, put your hope completely in the grace that will be brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ.
As obedient children, do not conform to the wishes that you previously had in your ignorance,
but just as he who called you is holy, so also be ye holy in all your way of living;
for it is written, BE THRILLED SAINT, BECAUSE I AM HOLY.
And if you invoke as Father the one who impartially judges according to the work of each one, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your pilgrimage;
knowing that you were not redeemed from your vain way of living inherited from your parents with perishable things like gold or silver,
but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ.
Because He was prepared since before the foundation of the world, but He has manifested Himself in these last times for love of you
that through Him you are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope may be in God.
Since in obedience to the truth you have purified your souls for a sincere love of brothers, love each other dearly, with a pure heart.
For you have been born again, not from a corruptible seed, but from one that is incorruptible, that is, through the word of God that lives and remains.
Because: ALL FLESH IS LIKE GRASS, AND ALL ITS GLORY LIKE THE FLOWER OF GRASS. DRY THE GRASS, CESS THE FLOWER,
BUT THE LORD'S WORD REMAINS FOREVER.