Since Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, you also arm yourselves with the same thought; for he who has suffered in the flesh has left sin;
to live the time that remains in the flesh, not according to the lusts of men, but according to the will of God.
Because it must be enough for us that during the past time of our life we ​​have done the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lusts, lusts, drunkenness, orgies, banquets and abominable idolatries.
It seems strange to these that you do not run with them in the same debauchery of dissolution, and they outrage you;
but they will give account to him who is prepared to judge the living and the dead.
For this is why the gospel has also been preached to the dead; that they may be judged in the flesh according to men, but live in the spirit according to God.
But the end of all things is near; So be sober and watch in prayer.
And above all, have fervent love among you, because love will cover many sins.
Host one another without murmuring.
Each according to the gift he has received, minister to others, as good stewards of the various manifestations of God's grace.
If anyone speaks, speak according to the words of God; if anyone ministers, minister according to the strength that God gives, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom glory and dominion belong forever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, do not be amazed at the trial fire that has come upon you to test yourself, as if something strange were happening to you,
Rather, rejoice that you are partakers of Christ's afflictions, that in the revelation of his glory you may also rejoice with great joy.
If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rest on you. Surely for them he is blasphemed, but for you he is glorified.
So, none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or a criminal, or for meddling in other people's affairs.
But if anyone suffers as a Christian, do not be ashamed, but glorify God in it.
Because it is time for the judgment to begin at the house of God; And if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God?
And if the righteous is saved with difficulty, what will become of the wicked and the sinner?
Therefore, those who are afflicted according to the will of God, entrust their souls to the faithful Creator, doing good.