Having thus left all evil, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all slander,
wish like newborn babies the milk of the unadulterated word so that by it they may grow for salvation,
since they have proven that the Lord is kind.
Approaching him, the Living Stone —which was certainly rejected by men, but before God is chosen and precious—,
May you also be built as living stones in a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer pleasing spiritual sacrifices to God through Jesus Christ.
This is why the Scripture contains: Behold, I place in Zion the Corner Stone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will never be ashamed.
So for you who believe it is of the utmost value; but for those who do not believe: The stone that the builders rejected, this was made head of the angle [b],
and: stumbling block and scandal rock [c]. Those stumble, being disobedient to the word, because for that very purpose they were destined.
But you are chosen lineage, royal priesthood, holy nation, acquired people, to announce the virtues [d] of him who has called you from darkness to his admirable light.
In the past you were not a people but now you are God's people; they had not reached mercy but now they have reached mercy [e].
Beloved, I exhort you as pilgrims and expatriates to abstain from the fleshly passions that fight against life [f].
Have an exemplary conduct among the Gentiles, so that when they slander you as evildoers, when they see your good works, they glorify God on the day of the visitation.
Be subject to every human institution for the Lord's sake; either to the king as one who exercises sovereignty,
or to the rulers as those who have been sent by him for the punishment of those who do evil and for the praise of those who do good.
Because this is the will of God: that by doing good they silence the ignorance of foolish men.
Act as free, and not as those who make liberty a pretext for doing evil, but as servants of God.
Honor everyone; love the brothers; fear God; honor the king.
Servants, be subject with all respect to your masters; not only to those who are good and understanding but also to the severe.
Because this is acceptable: that somebody supports affliction and suffers unjustly for having conscience of God.
For what is remarkable if, when they commit sin and are slapped, they endure it? But if they endure it when they do good and are afflicted, this is acceptable before God.
For this is what you were called to do, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his footsteps.
He did not commit sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth [h].
When they cursed him, he did not respond with a curse. When he suffered, he did not threaten but was entrusted to the one who judges fairly.
He himself carried our sins in his body on the tree so that we, having died for sins, live for justice. By your wounds you have been healed.
Because they were like lost sheep, but now they have returned to the Pastor and Bishop of their life [i].