But about the times and the occasions, brothers, you don't need me to write to you.
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord will come as a thief by night.
When they say, "Peace and security," then destruction will come upon them suddenly, as sorrows come upon the woman giving birth, and they will in no way escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that that day surprises you like a thief.
You are all children of light and children of the day. We are not children of the night or of darkness.
Therefore, we do not sleep like the others but we watch and we are sober;
for those who sleep sleep at night; and those who get drunk get drunk at night.
But we who are of the day let us be sober, clothed in the breastplate of faith and love, and with the helmet of the hope of salvation.
For God has not set us to anger but to achieve salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us so that, whether we watch or sleep, we live together with him.
Therefore encourage one another and build each other up, just as you already do.
We ask you, brothers, to recognize those who work among you, preside over you in the Lord and give you instruction.
Hold them in high esteem with love for your work. Live in peace with one another.
Brethren, we also urge you to admonish the disordered, to encourage the low-spirited, to support the weak, and to be patient with everyone.
See that no one returns evil to evil to another; instead, always seek what is good for each other and for everyone.
Always be joyful.
Pray without ceasing.
Give thanks in everything, because this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not underestimate the prophecies;
rather [a], examine everything, retain the good.
Get away from all appearance of evil.
And the same God of peace sanctify them completely; May his whole being — both spirit, soul and body — be kept undefiled at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is the one who calls them, who will also achieve it.
Brothers, pray also for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I solemnly urge the Lord to read this letter to all the brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you [b].