For the rest, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that in the way that you were taught by us how it is convenient for you to walk and please God, you abound more and more.
Because you already know what commandments we gave you from the Lord Jesus.
Because the will of God is your sanctification; that you depart from fornication;
that each one of you know how to have your glass in sanctification and honor;
not with a passion for lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
Let no one oppress or deceive his brother in any way, because the Lord is avenger of all this, as we have already told you and testified.
Because God has not called us to impurity, but to sanctification.
So whoever despises this does not despise man, but God, who also gave us his Holy Spirit.
But it is not necessary that I write to you about brotherly love, because you yourselves have learned from God that you love one another;
and you also do so with all the brothers who are throughout Macedonia. But we beg you, brothers, to abound in it more and more;
and that you try to have tranquility, and to take care of your affairs, and to work with your hands in the way that we have commanded you;
so that you may walk honestly with strangers, and have no need of anything.
Nor do we want, brothers, to be ignorant about those who sleep, so that you do not feel sad like the others who have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so will God bring those who slept in him with Jesus.
Therefore, we say this to you in the word of the Lord: that we who live, who will remain until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who slept.
For the Lord Himself with a command voice, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, will descend from heaven; and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to receive the Lord in the air, and thus we will always be with the Lord.
Therefore, comfort one another with these words.