Because you yourselves know, brothers, that our visit to you was not in vain,
but after having suffered and been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had the courage, trusting in our God, to speak the gospel of God to you in the midst of much opposition.
For our appeal is not from error or impurity, nor is it by deception;
but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts.
Because as you know, we never came to you with flattering words, or with a pretext to profit, God is a witness,
neither seeking glory from men, neither from you nor from others, although as apostles of Christ we could have imposed our authority.
Rather, we show ourselves to be kind to each other, like a mother who tenderly raises her own children.
Having thus a great affection for you, we have been pleased to impart not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you became very dear to us.
Because you remember, brothers and sisters, our work and hard work, how, working day and night so as not to be a burden to any of you, we proclaim the gospel of God to you.
You are witnesses, and also God, of how holy, just and blameless we behave with you believers;
just as you know how we exhorted, encouraged and implored each one of you, as a father would do with his own children,
that you might walk worthy of the God who has called you to his kingdom and glory.
For this we also incessantly thank God that when you received the word of God, that you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God, which also does its work in you who believe.
For you, brothers, came to be imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, because you also suffered the same sufferings at the hands of your own compatriots, just as they suffered at the hands of the Jews,
who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and cast us out, and they do not please God but are contrary to all men,
preventing us from speaking to the Gentiles to be saved, with the result that they always fill the measure of their sins. But the anger has come upon them to the extreme.
But we, brothers, separated from you for a short time, in person but not in spirit, were very anxious, with a deep desire to see your face.
Since we wanted to come to you (at least me, Paul, more than once) but Satan has prevented us.
For who is our hope or joy or crown of glory? Are you not in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming?
For you are our glory and our joy.
