Because you yourselves know, brothers, regarding our visit to you, that it was not in vain.
On the contrary, even though we had suffered before and had been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had courage in our God to announce the gospel of God to them in the midst of great conflict.
For our exhortation did not come from error or impure motives, nor was it deceitful.
Rather, as we were approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak; not like those who seek to please men but God who examines our hearts.
Because, as you know, we never use flattering words or words as a pretext for greed; God is a witness.
Neither do we seek glory from men, from you or from others; although we could have been burdened to them as apostles of Christ.
Rather, we were tender among you, like the wet nurse who raises and cares for her own children.
So much is our love for you that it seemed good to give you not only the gospel of God but also our own life, because they had become very dear to us.
Because they remember, brothers, our hard work and fatigue; that working day and night to avoid being burdensome to any of you we preach the gospel of God.
You are witnesses, and God too, how holy, just and blamelessly we act among you believers.
In this you know that we were for each of you as the father for your own children: We exhorted you, we encouraged you
and we insisted that they walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls them [b] to his own kingdom and glory.
For this reason, we also give thanks to God without ceasing; because when you received the word of God that you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men but as what is truly, the word of God who works in you who believe.
Because you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea; for you too have suffered the same things from your own compatriots, as they from the Jews.
These killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, they have persecuted us, they do not please God and they oppose all men,
forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles so that they may be saved. Thus they always fill the measure of their sins. But the wrath of God comes upon them to the extreme!
But we, brothers, separated from you for a little while, in sight but not in heart, try with greater effort and with much desire to see you personally.
So we wanted to come to you (I Paul, over and over again), but Satan stopped us.
For what is our hope, joy, or crown of pride before the Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? Are you not?
Indeed, you are our glory and joy.