For the rest, brethren, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that as they learned from us about how it is convenient for them to walk and please God, as they are, so that they continue progressing more and more.
You know what the instructions we gave you from the Lord Jesus are.
For this is the will of God, your sanctification: to turn away from sexual immorality;
that each of you know how to control your own body in sanctification and honor,
not with low passions like the Gentiles who do not know God;
and that in this matter nobody runs over or deceives his brother; because the Lord is the one that takes revenge in all these things, as we have already told and warned you.
Because God has not called us to impurity but to sanctification.
Therefore, the one who rejects this does not reject man but God who [gives] his Holy Spirit.
But with regard to brotherly love, you have no need to write to you, because you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another.
In fact, they are doing it with all the brothers throughout Macedonia; But we urge you, brothers, to continue to make further progress.
Aspire to live in tranquility, occupy yourself with your own affairs and work with your own hands, as we have commanded you;
so that they conduct themselves honestly towards those outside and have no need of anything.
Nor do we want, brothers, to be ignorant about those who sleep, so that they are not saddened like others who have no hope.
Because if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, in the same way God will bring through Jesus, and with him, those who have fallen asleep.
For we tell you this by the word of the Lord: We who live, who will remain until the coming of the Lord, will in no way precede those who have already slept.
For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with acclamation, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God; and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we, who live and will have stayed, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will always be with the Lord.
So encourage each other with these words.