For the rest, brethren, we ask you, therefore, and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that as you have received instructions from us about the way in which you should walk and please God (as in fact you already walk), so abound in it more and more.
For you know what precepts we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus.
Because this is the will of God: your sanctification; that is, that you abstain from sexual immorality;
Let each of you know how to possess your own glass in sanctification and honor,
not in lustful passion, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
and let no one sin and defraud his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, as we also told you before and solemnly warned you.
Because God has not called us to impurity, but to sanctification.
Therefore, he who rejects this does not reject man, but the God who gives you his Holy Spirit.
But as for brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you, because you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another;
because in truth you practice it with all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do more and more about it,
and that you have for your ambition to lead a quiet life, and occupy yourself in your own affairs and work with your hands, as we have commanded you;
so that you conduct yourselves honestly towards those outside, and have no need of anything.
But we do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant about those who sleep, so that you are not saddened as others who have no hope do.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so also God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus.
Therefore we tell you this by the word of the Lord: that we who are alive and who remain until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who slept.
For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a voice of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we will be with the Lord forever.
Therefore comfort each other with these words.
