But about the times and the seasons, you have no need, brothers, for me to write to you.
For you know perfectly well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night,
that when they say: Peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them, like pains to the pregnant woman, and they will not escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that day may surprise you as a thief;
for you are all children of light, and children of the day; we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
Therefore, let us not sleep like the others, but let us watch and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep at night; and those who get drunk get drunk at night.
But we who are of the day, let us be sober, having dressed with the breastplate of faith and love, and with the hope of salvation as a helmet.
For God has not set us to anger, but to achieve salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, whether we watch or sleep, we live together with him.
Wherefore comfort one another, and build one another up, even as you do.
And we ask you, brothers, to recognize those who work among you, and preside over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
and that you hold them in high esteem for their work. Have peace with one another.
We also ask you, brothers, to admonish those who walk disorderly, to console the low spirits, to support the weak, to be patient with everyone.
See that none returns evil for evil, but always follow what is good for each other and for everyone.
Always be joyful.
Pray without ceasing.
Give thanks in everything, because this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not underestimate the prophecies.
Examine everything; hold fast what is good.
Depart from all appearance of evil.
And the same God of peace sanctify you completely; and all your being, and spirit, and soul and body be kept blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he who has called you, who will also do it.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I ask you, by the Lord, that this letter be read to all the holy brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.