Now, brothers, regarding the times and the times, you have no need for anything to be written to you.
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night;
that when they are saying: Peace and security, then destruction will come upon them suddenly, like labor pains to a woman who is pregnant, and they will not escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that the day will surprise you like a thief;
because all of you are children of the light and children of the day. We are not of the night or of darkness.
Therefore, we do not sleep like the others, but we are alert and sober.
For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk get drunk at night.
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and by helmet the hope of salvation.
Because God has not destined us for anger, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we live together with Him.
Therefore encourage one another, and build each other up, just as you are doing.
But we beg you, brothers, to recognize those who diligently work among you and lead you in the Lord and instruct you,
and that you hold them in high esteem with love for their work. Live in peace with one another.
And we exhort you, brothers, to admonish the undisciplined, encourage the discouraged, support the weak and be patient with everyone.
See that no one returns evil to evil to another, but always seek what is good for each other, and for everyone.
Rejoice always;
pray without ceasing;
give thanks in everything, because this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit;
do not underestimate the prophecies.
Rather, examine everything carefully, hold fast to that which is good;
abstain from all forms of evil.
And may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely; and that all your being, spirit, soul and body, be preserved blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he who calls you, who will also do it.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I solemnly charge you for the Lord to read this letter to all the brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
