Because, brothers, you yourselves know that our visit to you was not in vain,
because even having suffered before, and been insulted in Philippi, as you know, we had courage in our God to announce the gospel of God in the midst of great opposition.
Because our exhortation did not come from error, nor from impurity, nor was it by deception,
but as we were approved by God so that the gospel was entrusted to us, so we spoke; not to please men, but to God, who examines our hearts.
Because we were never flattering in the word, as you know, nor did we conceal greed; God is a witness;
We did not seek glory from men, or from you, or from others, although we could be burdensome as apostles of Christ.
Rather, we were affectionate among you as the one who tenderly raises her children.
So great is our affection for you that we would have wanted to give you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you have become very dear to us.
Because, brothers, you remember our work and fatigue, how working night and day, so as not to be burdensome to any of you, we preach the gospel of God.
You are witnesses, and God too, of how holy and just and blameless we conducted ourselves with you who believed,
just as you also know how we exhorted and consoled each one of you, like a father to his children,
and we charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who called you to his kingdom and glory.
For which we also give thanks to God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God that you heard from us, you received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which acts in you who you believed.
Because you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea; for you have suffered the same things as those of your own nation, as they also of the Jews;
who killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they do not please God, and they oppose all men;
preventing us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they may be saved; thus they always fill the measure of their sins, because the wrath came to them to the end.
But we, brothers, separated from you for a little while, in sight but not in heart, all the more we try with much desire to see your face.
So we wanted to come to you, me, Pablo, to the truth, over and over again; but Satan stopped us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown, that I should boast? Are you not, before our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
Because you are our glory and joy.