May all who are under the yoke of slavery have their own masters worthy of all honor, lest the name of God or doctrine be discredited.
That those who have believing masters do not have them less because they are brothers. On the contrary, serve them better because they are believers and loved those who benefit from their good service. This teaches and encourages.
If someone teaches something different and does not conform to the healthy words of our Lord Jesus Christ and to the doctrine that is according to godliness
he has become proud and knows nothing. Rather, he raves about controversies and strife, from which come envy, discord, slander, perverse suspicions,
and foolish quarrels between men of corrupt mind and deprived of the truth who have godliness as a source of profit [a].
However, great gain is mercy with contentment.
Because we brought nothing to this world, and it is evident that nothing can be obtained.
So, having the sustenance and what to cover ourselves with, we will be happy with this.
Because those who want to get rich fall into temptation and cheating, and into many foolish and harmful passions that plunge men into ruin and perdition.
Because the love of money is the root of all ills; which coveting some, were led astray of the faith and they pierced themselves with many pains.
But you, man of God, flee from these things and follow justice, piety, faith, love, perseverance, meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith; Lay hold on the eternal life to which you were called and confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
I send you before God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who testified of the good confession before Pontius Pilate,
that you keep the commandment without spot or reproach until the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ.
In due course it will be shown by the Blessed and Only Mighty, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
the only one who has immortality, who lives in inaccessible light, whom neither man has seen nor can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
He commands the wealthy of the present age not to be haughty nor to put their hope in the uncertainty of riches but in God who provides us with all things in abundance for us to enjoy.
That they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be generous and willing to share,
treasuring for themselves a good foundation for the future so that they may lay hold on true life [b].
O Timothy, keep what has been entrusted to you, avoiding the profane and vain talk and the arguments of the falsely called science
which, professing some went astray as for the faith.