Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus at the command of God our Savior, and of Christ Jesus our hope,
Timothy, true son in faith: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
As I begged you on leaving for Macedonia to stay at Ephesus to instruct some not to teach strange doctrines,
Nor will they pay attention to endless myths and genealogies, which leads to useless discussions instead of advancing God's plan that is by faith, so I entrust you now.
But the purpose of our instruction is love born from a pure heart, from a good conscience and from a sincere faith.
For some, deviating from these things, have turned away to a vain verbiage,
wanting to be teachers of the law, although they do not understand what they say or the things about which they make categorical statements.
But we know that the law is good, if one uses it legitimately,
recognizing this: that the law has not been instituted for the just, but for the transgressors and rebels, for the wicked and sinners, for the irreverent and profane, for parricides and matricides, for homicides,
for immoral people, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, those who swear falsely, and for anything else that is contrary to sound doctrine,
according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which has been entrusted to me.
I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me, because he considered me faithful, putting me in the ministry;
even though I was a blasphemer, a persecutor and an aggressor before. However, I was shown mercy because I did it out of ignorance in my disbelief.
But the grace of our Lord was more than abundant, with the faith and love found in Christ Jesus.
Faithful and worthy word to be accepted by all: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am the first.
However, for this reason I found mercy, so that in me, like the first, Jesus Christ would demonstrate all his patience as an example for those who would believe in Him for eternal life.
Therefore, to the eternal, immortal, invisible King, the only God, to Him be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am entrusting this commission to you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies that were previously made regarding you, so that you fight the good fight for them,
keeping the faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and were shipwrecked as far as faith is concerned.
Among which are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, so that they learn not to blaspheme.