Do not rebuke the old man, but exhort him as a father; to the youngest, like brothers;
old women, like mothers; girls, like sisters, in all purity.
Honor widows who really are.
But if a widow has children, or grandchildren, let them learn first to show mercy in their own house, and to reward their parents, because this is what is good and pleasant before God.
But the one who is truly a widow and has been left alone, waits on God, and is diligent in supplications and prayers night and day.
But the one who surrenders to pleasures, living is dead.
Also send these things, so that they are blameless.
For if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
The widow is listed only if she is over the age of sixty and has been the wife of one husband.
Let him bear witness to good works: if he has raised children, if he has practiced hospitality, if he has washed the feet of the saints, if he has helped the afflicted, if he has followed every good work.
But do not admit younger widows, because when, driven by their desires that separate them from Christ, they want to get married,
Thus incurring condemnation for having put aside his first faith.
And they also learn to be idle, to walk from house to house; and not only idle, but also gossipy and nosy, speaking what they shouldn't.
So I want the youngest to marry, raise children, run their home; that no occasion of slander give the adversary.
Because some have already turned aside to go after Satan.
If any believer or any believer has widows, keep them, and the church is not taxed; so that there is enough for those who are truly widows.
Elders who govern well are held to be worthy of double honor, especially those who work in preaching and teaching.
Because the Scripture says: You will not muzzle the ox that threshes, and: Worthy is the worker of his salary.
Do not admit an accusation against an old man, but with two or three witnesses.
Reprimand those who sin in front of all, so that others may also fear.
I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, and his chosen angels, that you keep these things without prejudice, that you do nothing with partiality.
Do not lightly lay hands on anyone, nor participate in other people's sins; keep yourself pure.
Do not drink water from now on, but use a little wine because of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
The sins of some men are manifest before they come to trial, but others are discovered later.
Likewise, good works are evident beforehand; and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.