Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus at the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus [to] our hope,
Timothy, true son in faith: Grace, mercy and peace, from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
As I begged you when I left for Macedonia, stay in Ephesus so that you require some not to teach strange doctrines
Nor pay attention to fables and endless genealogies that serve more speculation than God's plan, which is by faith.
But the purpose of the commandment is love that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and unfeigned faith.
Some of them, having gone astray, turned away after vain talk,
wanting to be teachers of the law without understanding what they speak or what they affirm with such certainty.
We know, however, that the law is good if one uses it legitimately.
And we know this: that the law has not been set for the just but for the rebellious and insubordinate, for the wicked and sinners, for the irreverent and profane, for parricides and matricides, for homicides,
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and for anything that is contrary to sound doctrine
according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God that has been entrusted to me.
I thank the one who strengthened me, Jesus Christ our Lord, because he considered me faithful to put me in the ministry
even though I was blasphemous, persecuting, and insolent before. However, I received mercy because, being ignorant, I did it in disbelief.
But the grace of our Lord was more than abundant with the faith and love that is in Christ Jesus.
This word is faithful and worthy of all acceptance: that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the first.
Nevertheless, for this reason I received mercy, so that Christ Jesus would show in me, the first, all his mercy for the example of those who would believe in him for eternal life.
Therefore, to the King of the centuries, to the immortal, invisible and unique God [b], be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am entrusting you with this commandment, son Timothy, according to the prophecies that were made about you before, so that the good militia may do the same for them
maintaining the faith and the good conscience, which some rejected and were shipwrecked as for the faith.
Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan to learn not to blaspheme.