All who are under the yoke as slaves, consider their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and our doctrine are not blasphemed.
And those who have masters who are believers, do not disrespect them, because they are brothers, but serve them even better, since they are believers and loved ones who benefit from their service. Teach and preach these principles.
If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not conform to the sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that is according to godliness,
he is puffed up and understands nothing, but has a morbid interest in discussions and contests of words, from which envies, lawsuits, blasphemies, bad suspicions are born,
and constant quarrels between men of depraved mind, who are deprived of the truth, who suppose that piety is a means of profit.
But godliness is indeed a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment.
Because we have brought nothing to the world, so we can take nothing from it.
And if we have what to eat and what to cover ourselves with, we will be happy with that.
But those who want to enrich themselves fall into temptation and bond and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and perdition.
Because the root of all evils is the love of money, for which, some coveting it, they strayed from the faith and tortured themselves with many pains.
But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and follow justice, piety, faith, love, perseverance and kindness.
Fight the good fight of faith; lay hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and of which you made a good profession in the presence of many witnesses.
I send you before God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who testified of the good profession before Pontius Pilate,
that you keep the commandment without spot or reproach until the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which will manifest in due time the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords;
the only one who has immortality and lives in inaccessible light; whom no man has seen nor can see. To Him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
To the wealthy in this world, teach them not to be haughty or to put their hope in the uncertainty of riches, but in God, who abundantly gives us all things for our enjoyment.
Teach them to do well, to be rich in good works, generous and ready to share,
accumulating for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they can lay hold on what is truly life.
O Timothy, keep what has been entrusted to you, and avoid empty and profane talk, and the objections of what is falsely called science,
which some professed, have deviated from the faith.
