Do not reprimand the old man harshly, but rather exhort him as a father; to the youngest, like brothers,
old women, like mothers; to the younger ones, like sisters, in all purity.
Honor widows who are truly widows;
But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show mercy towards their own family and to reward their parents, because this is pleasing before God.
But the one who is truly a widow and has been left alone, has placed her hope in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day.
But the one who indulges in unbridled pleasures, even living, is dead.
Also order these things, so that they are irreproachable.
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those in his house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
That the widow be listed only if she is not less than sixty years old, having been the wife of one husband,
have a witness of good works; if he has raised children, if he has shown hospitality to strangers, if he has washed the feet of the saints, if he has helped the afflicted, and if he has devoted himself to every good work.
But she refuses to list younger widows, because when they feel sensual desires, contrary to Christ, they want to get married,
thus incurring condemnation, for having abandoned his previous promise.
And also, they learn to be idle, going from house to house; and not only idle, but also talkative and nosy, talking about things that are not worthy.
Therefore, I want the younger widows to marry, to have children, to take care of their home and not give the adversary an opportunity for reproach.
For some have already turned aside to follow Satan.
If any believer has widows in the family, let them support them, and may the church not bear the burden so that it can help those who are truly widows.
Elders who govern well are considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work in preaching and teaching.
Because the Scripture says: YOU WILL NOT MUT THE OX WHEN THRESHING, and: The worker is worthy of his salary.
Do not admit an accusation against an elder, unless there are two or three witnesses.
To those who continue in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all so that others are afraid to sin.
I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of his chosen angels, to preserve these principles without prejudice, doing nothing in a spirit of partiality.
Do not lay hands lightly on anyone, thus sharing responsibility for the sins of others; be free from sin.
No longer drink water alone, but use a little wine because of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
The sins of some men are already evident, going before them to judgment; but to others, their sins follow.
In the same way, good works are evident, and those that are not cannot be hidden.