Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by command of God our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope,
Timothy, true son in faith: Grace, mercy and peace from God our Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
As I begged you to stay in Ephesus, when I left for Macedonia, to command some to not teach another doctrine,
nor pay attention to endless fables and genealogies, which engender speculation rather than the edification of God that is by faith; that's how I entrust you now.
For the end of the commandment is love born of a pure heart, and of a good conscience and of unfeigned faith;
from which some deviated, they turned away to vain talk;
wanting to be doctors of the law, without understanding neither what they speak nor what they affirm.
But we know that the law is good, if it is used legitimately,
knowing this: that the law is not set for the just, but for the transgressors and the disobedient, for the wicked and the sinners, for the irreverent and the profane, for the parricides and the matricides, for the murderers,
for fornicators, for sodomites, for kidnappers, for liars and perjurers, and for anything else contrary to sound doctrine;
according to the gospel of glory of the blessed God, which has been entrusted to me.
And I thank the one who strengthened me, Jesus Christ, our Lord, because he considered me faithful and put me in the ministry,
even though I was previously a blasphemer, a persecutor and an abusive person; But I received mercy, because I did it out of ignorance, in unbelief.
But the grace of our Lord was more abundant with the faith and love that is in Christ Jesus.
Faithful and worthy word of full acceptance: that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the first.
But for this I was received with mercy, so that Jesus Christ would show in me, the first, all his mercy, for the example of those who would believe in him for eternal life.
Therefore, to the eternal, immortal, invisible King, the only and wise God be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
This commandment, Timothy son, I entrust to you, so that, according to the previous prophecies about you, you fight the good fight for them,
maintaining the faith and good conscience, which some rejected and were shipwrecked regarding the faith,
among those who are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I handed over to Satan, so that they learn not to blaspheme.