All who are under the yoke of slavery hold their masters worthy of all honor, lest the name of God or doctrine be blasphemed.
And those who have believing masters, do not hold them less because they are brothers, but serve them better, because they are believers and loved those who benefit from their good service. This teaches and encourages.
If anyone teaches otherwise, and does not conform to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that is according to godliness,
he is puffed up, he knows nothing and he is obsessed with altercations and strife with words, from which envy, lawsuits, gossip, evil suspicions are born,
constant quarrels of men corrupt of understanding and deprived of the truth, who consider piety as a source of profit; stay away from such.
But great gain is piety accompanied by contentment.
Because we have brought nothing to this world and, without a doubt, nothing can be obtained.
So, having a livelihood and what to cover ourselves with, let's be happy with this.
Because those who want to get rich fall into temptation and cheating, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which plunge men into perdition and death.
Because the love of money is the root of all evils, which, coveting some, went astray from the faith, and were pierced with many pains.
But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and follow justice, piety, faith, love, patience, meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, to which you were also called, having made the good profession before many witnesses.
I send you before God, who gives life to all things, and of Jesus Christ, who testified of the good profession before Pontius Pilate,
that you keep the commandment without spot or reproof, until the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which in time will show the blessed and only Sovereign, King of kings and Lord of lords,
the only one who has immortality, who lives in inaccessible light; whom none of the men has seen nor can see, who are the honor and the everlasting empire. Amen.
He commands the rich of this world not to be haughty, nor to put hope in the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, who gives us all things in abundance for us to enjoy.
That they do well, that they be rich in good works, generous, willing to share,
laying up for themselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
O Timothy, keep what has been entrusted to you, avoiding the profane talks about vain things, and the arguments of the falsely called science,
which professing some, have deviated from the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.