Do not scold the old man harshly, but exhort him as a father; to the youngest, like brothers;
old women, like mothers; and young women, like sisters, in all purity.
Honor widows who are really widows.
But if a widow has children or grandchildren, they should first learn to be godly with those in their own home and to reward their parents because this is acceptable before God.
Now, the one who is really a widow and who has been left alone, has put her hope in God and perseveres in supplication and prayers night and day;
but the one who surrenders to pleasures, living is dead.
Also send these things so that they are blameless.
If someone does not take care of his own, and especially those of his house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
Let the widow who has reached the age of sixty, who has been the wife of one husband, be included in the list,
have a witness of good works; if he has raised children, if he has practiced hospitality, if he has washed the feet of the saints, if he has helped the afflicted and if he has dedicated himself to every good work.
But don't admit the younger widows because when their passions separate them from Christ they want to get married,
being on trial for having abandoned his first engagement.
And at the same time they learn to be idle walking from house to house. They not only learn to be idle, but also gossipy and nosy, speaking what is not convenient.
That is why I want the youngest to marry, raise children, rule their home and give the adversary no chance of reproach.
because some have already gone astray in pursuit of Satan.
If any believer or believer [a] has widows, take care of them. Don't be a burden on the church, so that there is enough for those who are really widows.
Elders who lead well are held worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at word and teaching.
Because the Scripture says: You will not muzzle the ox that threshes [b]. Furthermore: "The worker is worthy of his salary" [c].
Do not admit an accusation against an elder unless there are two or three witnesses.
Reprimand those who continue to sin in front of everyone so that others may fear.
I solemnly require, before God and Jesus Christ and his chosen angels, that you keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing with partiality.
Do not lay hands on anyone lightly or participate in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.
From now on do not drink water; Rather, use a little wine because of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
The sins of some men are evident before they appear in court, but others are caught later.
In the same way, good works are made clear in advance and, even if they are otherwise, it is not possible to keep them hidden.