So, beloved, since we have such promises, let us cleanse ourselves from all impurities of body and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Receive us. We have wronged no one; we have corrupted no one; we have not exploited anyone.
I am not saying this to condemn you; because I already said that they are in our hearts to die together and to live together.
I have great confidence in you; I boast greatly in you; I am full of consolation; overflowing with joy in all our affliction.
When we came to Macedonia, our body had no rest; rather, in everything we were troubled: from without conflicts, from within fears.
But God, who consoles the humble, consoled us with the coming of Titus.
And not only with his coming but also with the consolation that he received regarding you, letting us know your longing, your tears and your zeal for me, so that I would enjoy myself more.
Because although I caused sadness with the letter, it does not weigh me, although it did weigh me then; because I see that letter caused them sadness only for a time.
Now I rejoice, not because you have felt sadness, but because you were saddened to repentance; for they have been saddened according to God, so that no harm would be done on our part.
Because the sadness that is according to God generates repentance for salvation, which is not to be regretted; but the sadness of the world degenerates into death.
For behold, the very fact that you have been saddened according to God, how much diligence he has produced in you! What apologies, what indignation, what fear, what anxiety, what zeal and what vindication! In everything they have been clean in the matter.
So, although I wrote to you, it was not because of the one who committed the offense or because of the one who suffered it, but so that your request for us would be manifested among you in the presence of God.
Therefore we have been comforted. But much more than for our consolation, we rejoice for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been revived by all of you.
Well, if I have been proud of you in anything before him, I was not ashamed. On the contrary, as we had told them everything with truth, so also our reason for pride before Titus was found true.
Now his feelings have intensified regarding you, remembering the obedience of all of you, of how you received him with fear and trembling.
I enjoy that I can trust you in everything.