I wish you could bear a little foolishness; and you really support me.
For I am jealous of you with a zeal for God; For I married you to a husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
But I fear that just as the serpent tricked Eve into deceiving you, your minds will be diverted from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ.
Because if someone comes and preaches another Jesus, to whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or you accept a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you will well tolerate it.
For I do not consider myself inferior in any way to the most eminent apostles.
But although I am clumsy in speaking, I am not clumsy in knowledge; in fact, by all means we have shown it to you in all things.
Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you would be exalted, because I preached the gospel of God to you freely?
I robbed other churches, taking wages from them to serve you;
And when I was with you and had need, I was a burden to no one; for when the brothers came from Macedonia, they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself, and will keep myself, from being your burden.
Since the truth of Christ is in me, this glorification will not be prevented in the regions of Achaia.
Why? Why don't I love you? God knows!
But what I do I will continue to do, in order to deprive those who want an opportunity to be considered equal to ourselves in what they boast about.
Because such are false apostles, fraudulent workers, who disguise themselves as apostles of Christ.
And it is not surprising, because even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
Therefore, it is not surprising that their servants also disguise themselves as servants of justice; whose purpose will be according to his works.
Again I say: nobody considers me foolish; but if you do, welcome me even if you are a fool, so that I too may boast a little.
What I say, I do not say as the Lord would say, but as in foolishness, in this confidence to glory.
For since many boast according to the flesh, I will also boast.
Because you, being so wise, gladly tolerate the foolish.
For you tolerate if someone enslaves you, if someone devours you, if someone takes advantage of you, if someone exalts himself, if someone hits you in the face.
To my shame I say that we have been weak in comparison. But in anything else that someone else is daring (I speak foolishly), I am equally daring.
Are they Hebrews? I also. Are they Israelites? I also. Are they descendants of Abraham? I also.
Are they servants of Christ? (I speak as if I have lost my mind.) Me more. In many more jobs, in many more prisons, in scourging countless times, often in danger of death.
Five times I have received thirty-nine lashes from the Jews.
Three times I have been beaten with rods, once I have been stoned, three times I have been shipwrecked, and I have spent a night and a day deep down.
Frequently in trips, in dangers of rivers, dangers of robbers, dangers of my compatriots, dangers of the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the desert, dangers in the sea, dangers between false brothers;
in work and fatigue, in many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and nakedness.
In addition to such external things, the daily pressure of concern for all the churches is upon me.
Who is weak without me being weak? Who is made to sin without my worrying intensely?
If I have to glory, I will glory in my weakness.
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
In Damascus, the governor under King Aretas, watched over the city of the Damascenos in order to apprehend me,
but they took me down in a basket through a window in the wall, and so I escaped from their hands.