Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Timothy, to the church of God that is in Corinth, with all the saints that are in all Achaia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies and God of all consolation,
who comforts us in all our tribulations, so that we too can comfort those who are in any tribulation, with the consolation with which we are consoled by God.
For just as the afflictions of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds through Christ himself.
But if we are troubled, it is for your consolation and salvation; which is done in suffering the same afflictions that we also suffer; or if we are consoled, it is for your consolation and salvation.
And our hope for you is firm, for we know that just as you are companions in afflictions, you are also companions in consolation.
Because, brothers, we do not want you to be unaware of the tribulation that we suffered in Asia, because we were overwhelmed beyond our strength, in such a way that we lost the hope of coming out alive.
But we had in ourselves the death sentence, so that we did not trust ourselves, but in God who raises the dead,
He who delivered us and delivers us from such a great death; and in whom we hope will still deliver us;
You also cooperate with prayer for us, so that many people may be thanked in our favor for the gift given to us through many.
Because our joy is this: the testimony of our conscience, that with simplicity and sincerity of God, not with carnal wisdom, but with the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and much more with you.
Because we do not write other things to you but what you read and understand; and I hope that until the end you will understand them;
as you have also understood in part that we are your joy, as well as yours, in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And with this confidence I wanted first to come to you, so that you would receive a double blessing;
and for you to go to Macedonia, and to return to Macedonia again, and for you to go to Judea.
So, pretending this, did I perhaps act lightly? Or what I plan to do, do I think according to the flesh, so that there is in me at the same time yes, yes, and no, no?
But, as God is faithful, our word to you is not yes and no.
Because the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who has been preached among you by us, by me, and by Silvano and Timothy, has not been yes and no, but only yes in him.
For all the promises of God are yes in him, and Amen in him, through us, for the glory of God.
And the one who confirms us with you in Christ, and the one who anointed us, is God,
who has also sealed us and given us the guarantee of the Spirit in our hearts.
But I invoke God as a witness over my soul, that because I am indulgent with you I have not yet passed to Corinth.
Not that we lord it over your faith, but that we collaborate for your joy, because by faith you are firm.