Likewise, brothers, we let you know the grace of God that has been given to the churches of Macedonia,
that in great trial of tribulation, the abundance of his joy and his deep poverty abounded in riches of his generosity.
For I bear witness that they have gladly given according to their strength, and even beyond their strength;
With many requests, we are asked to grant them the privilege of participating in this service for the saints.
And not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then to us, by the will of God.
So we urge Titus to finish this work of grace among you as it began before.
Therefore, as you abound in everything, in faith, and in word, and in knowledge, and in all solicitude, and in your love for us, abound also in this work of grace.
I do not speak as the one who commands, but to test, through the diligence of others, also the sincerity of your charity.
Because you already know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, who became poor because of you, being rich, so that you could be enriched with his poverty.
And here I give my advice, because this suits you, who started earlier, not only to do it, but also to want to do it, since last year.
Now, then, also carry out doing it, so that as you were ready to want, so you are also doing it according to what you have.
Because if there is good will first, you accept for what you have, not for what you don't have.
For I do not say this so that there may be ease for others, and narrowness for you,
but so that at this time, with equality, your abundance supplies what they need, so that their abundance also supplies what you need, so that there is equality;
as it is written: He who gathered much, had no more; and the one who had little had no less.
But thank God that he put in the heart of Titus the same request for you.
For in truth he received the exhortation; but being also very solicitous, of his own free will he left to come to you.
And we sent along with him the brother whose praise in the gospel is spread throughout all the churches;
and not only this, but he was also designated by the churches as a companion of our pilgrimage to carry this work of grace, which is administered by us for the glory of the Lord himself, and to demonstrate your good will,
to avoid anyone reproaching us for this abundance that we administer;
seeking to do things honestly, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
We also send our brother with them, whose diligence we have repeatedly verified in many things, and now he is much more diligent because of his great trust in you.
As for Tito, he is my partner and collaborator with you; and as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches and glory of Christ.
So show them to the churches the proof of your love, and of our pride in yourselves.