I must glory, although it is not profitable. However, I will turn to the visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago — if in the body, I don't know; if it were from the body, I don't know; God knows — he was caught up to the third heaven.
And I know about this man — whether in the body or outside the body, I don't know; God knows—
that he was taken away to paradise where he heard unspeakable things that man is not allowed to express.
I will glory in that man! But I will not glory in myself except in my weaknesses.
Because, if I wanted to glory, I would not be foolish, because I would tell the truth. But I give up, so that no one thinks of me more than he sees in me or hears of me.
And lest I be exalted exceedingly by the greatness of the revelations, I have been given a sting in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to slap me so that I will not exalt myself.
Regarding this, three times I have prayed to the Lord to take it from me
and he said to me: "My grace is enough for you, because my power is perfected in weakness." Therefore I will gladly rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may dwell in me.
That is why I take pleasure in weaknesses, insults, needs, persecutions and anguishes for the cause of Christ; because when I am weak, then I am strong.
I've become a fool! You forced me! Well, rather, I should be recommended by you because in nothing I have been less than the eminent apostles, although I am nothing.
The signs of the apostle have been performed among you with all patience, with signs, wonders and mighty deeds.
Well, where have they been less than the other churches, except that I myself have not been burdened to them? Forgive me this grievance!
Behold, I am ready to come to you a third time, and I will not be a burden to you. Because I am not looking for your things but for you; for children have no obligation to treasure for parents but parents for children.
However, I will very willingly spend what is mine, and I will wear myself out for their souls. If I love you more, will I be loved less?
Well, let it be so: I was not burdensome, but being cunning, I surprised you by deception!
Have I deceived you through one of those whom I have sent to you?
I begged Titus and sent the brother with him. Did Titus fool them? Have we not proceeded in the same spirit and by the same footsteps?
Do you think we are still defending ourselves to you? Before God and in Christ we speak; and everything, beloved, for your edification.
But I am afraid that perhaps, when I arrive, I will not find you as I want, and that I will be found by you as you do not want. I am afraid that there will be strife, jealousy, anger, anger, dissension, slander, gossip, insolence and disorder among you.
I am afraid that when I return, God will humiliate me and you will have to cry for many who have sinned before and have not repented of the acts of impurity, sexual immorality and debauchery they have committed.