Glory is necessary, although it is not profitable; I will then move on to the visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ, who fourteen years ago (I do not know if in the body, I do not know if he was in the body, God knows) he was snatched up to the third heaven.
And I know such a man (if in the body or outside the body I don't know, God knows)
that he was caught up to paradise, and heard unspeakable words that man is not allowed to express.
I will boast of such a man; But as for myself, I will not glory in my weaknesses.
Because if I wanted to glory, I would not be foolish, because I would tell the truth; but I refrain from doing it so that no one thinks of me more than he sees in me, or hears of me.
And given the extraordinary greatness of the revelations, for this reason, in order to prevent me from exalting myself, I was given a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan who slapped me, so that I would not exalt myself.
About this, three times I have prayed to the Lord to take it from me.
And He said to me: My grace is enough for you, because my power is perfected in weakness. Therefore, I will gladly rather glory in my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me.
That is why I take pleasure in weaknesses, insults, privations, persecutions, and anguishes for the love of Christ; because when I am weak, then I am strong.
I have become foolish; you made me do it. Well, I should have been praised by you, because in no way was I inferior to the most eminent apostles, although I am nothing.
Among you the signs of a true apostle were operated, with all perseverance, by means of signs, wonders, and miracles.
For how were you treated as inferior to the other churches, except that I was not a burden to you myself? Forgive me for this wrong!
Behold, this is the third time that I have been prepared to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you, since I do not seek what is yours, but you; Because children have no responsibility to treasure for their parents, but parents for their children.
And I will gladly spend what is mine, and even I will spend myself for your souls. If I love you more, will I be loved less?
But, in any case, I was not a burden; nevertheless, being cunning, I surprised you with deception.
Have I taken advantage of you through one of those whom I have sent to you?
I begged Titus to go, and with him I sent the brother. Did Titus take advantage of you? Have we not conducted ourselves in the same spirit and followed in the same footsteps?
All this time you have been thinking that we defended ourselves against you. Actually, it is before God that we have been speaking in Christ; and everything, beloved, for your edification.
Because I fear that perhaps when I go, I will find that you are not what I want, and I will be found by you that I am not what you want; that there may be lawsuits, jealousy, anger, rivalries, defamation, gossip, arrogance, disorder;
I fear that when I visit you again, my God will humble me before you, and I will have to cry for many who have previously sinned and have not repented of the impurity, immorality and sensuality that they have practiced.