Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not falter;
Rather, we have renounced what is hidden and shameful, not walking with cunning, nor adulterating the word of God, but, through the manifestation of the truth, we recommend ourselves to the conscience of every man in the presence of God.
And if our gospel is still veiled, for those who perish it is veiled,
in which the god of this world has blinded the understanding of unbelievers, so that they do not see the brightness of the gospel of the glory of Christ, which is the image of God.
Because we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and us as your servants for the love of Jesus.
For God, who said that light shines out of darkness, is the one who has shone in our hearts, to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ.
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the extraordinary greatness of power is from God and not from us.
Afflicted in everything, but not burdened; perplexed, but not desperate;
persecuted, but not abandoned; shot down, but not destroyed;
always carrying in the body everywhere the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus is also manifested in our body.
Because we who live are constantly being delivered to death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal body.
So death works in us, but in you, life.
But having the same spirit of faith, according to what is written: I believed, therefore I spoke, we also believe, therefore we also speak;
knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus, will also raise us with Jesus, and will present us together with you.
Because all of this is for your love, so that the grace that is spreading through many, may make thanksgiving abound for the glory of God.
Therefore we do not falter, rather, although our outer man is declining, yet our inner man is renewed from day to day.
For this slight and transient affliction produces an eternal weight of glory that surpasses all comparison,
by not setting our sights on things that are seen, but on things that are not seen; because the things that are seen are temporary, but the things that are not seen are eternal.