It is certainly not convenient for me to boast; I will then move on to the visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago (if in the body, I do not know; if he was in the body, I do not know; God knows) was snatched up to the third heaven.
And I know such a man (if in the body, or outside the body, I don't know; God knows),
that he was snatched away to paradise, where he heard unspeakable words that man cannot express.
I will glory in such a man, but in myself I will not glory, except in my weaknesses.
Well, if I wanted to glory, I would not be foolish, because I would tell the truth. But I don't, so that no one thinks of me more than they see or hear of me.
And so that the greatness of the revelations would not exalt me ​​excessively, I was given a sting in my flesh, a messenger of Satan who slapped me, so that I would not be highly exalted.
Regarding which three times I have asked the Lord to take it from me.
And he said to me: My grace is enough for you; because my power is perfected in weakness. Therefore I will gladly rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
Therefore, for Christ's sake I rejoice in weaknesses, in insults, in needs, in persecutions, in anguishes; because when I am weak, then I am strong.
I have become a fool in glorifying myself; you forced me to do it, because I should be praised by you, because I have been nothing less than those great apostles, although I am nothing.
With all this, the signs of the apostle have been done among you with all patience, not only with signs, but with wonders and wonders.
Because in what have you been less than the other churches, but in which I myself have not been a burden? Forgive me for this wrong.
Behold, for the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be burdensome to you, because I do not seek yours, but you; for children are not to treasure for parents, but parents for children.
And I, very willingly, will spend what is mine, and even I will spend myself entirely for your souls, although loving you more, I will be loved less.
But let's admit this: I have not been a burden to you, but, as I am cunning, I have caught you by deception.
Have I taken advantage of you through one of those I have sent to you?
I begged Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Have we not proceeded in the same spirit and followed in the same footsteps?
Do you still think we apologize to you? We speak before God in Christ; and all, dearly beloved, for your edification.
Because I fear that when I arrive, I will not find you as I want, and I will be found by you which you do not want; let there be strife, envy, anger, dissension, slander, gossip, pride, disorder among you;
that when I return, God humbles you among me, and perhaps I will have to cry for many of those who before have sinned, and have not repented of the filth and fornication and lust they have committed.