I wish you could tolerate a little madness; yes, tolerate me.
Because I jealous you with a zeal for God, because I have married you with a single boyfriend, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
But I fear that just as the serpent deceived Eve with her cunning, your senses are somehow deviated from the simplicity that is in Christ.
For if anyone comes and preaches another Jesus than the one we have preached, or if you receive another spirit than the one you have received, or another gospel than the one you have accepted, you will tolerate it.
Well, I think that I have not been inferior to those great apostles.
For although I am clumsy in word, I am not clumsy in knowledge; in everything and anyway we have shown it to you.
Did I sin by humbling myself, so that you might be exalted, because I have preached the gospel of God freely to you?
I have stripped other churches, receiving sustenance to minister to you.
And when I was among you and I had need, I was not a burden to anyone, because what I lacked, the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied; and in everything I kept myself and I will keep myself from being burdensome.
For the truth of Christ that is in me, I will not be prevented from this glory in the regions of Achaia.
Why? Why don't I love you? God knows!
But what I do, I will continue doing, to take away the occasion from those who desire it, so that in what they boast, they will be found similar to us.
Because these are false apostles, fraudulent workers, who pose as apostles of Christ.
And it is not surprising, because Satan himself poses as an angel of light.
So it is not strange if his ministers also pose as ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.
Again I say: Let no one consider me crazy; or in another way, welcome me like crazy, so that I too can boast a little.
What I speak, I do not speak according to the Lord, but as in madness, with this confidence to glory.
For since many boast according to the flesh, I will also boast.
Because you willingly tolerate fools, being wise.
Because you tolerate if someone places you in bondage, if someone devours you, if someone takes from you, if someone exalts himself, if someone hits you in the face.
To my shame I say it, for that we were too weak. But in what another has boldness (I speak madly), I also have boldness.
Are they Hebrews? I also. Are they Israelites? I also. Are they descendants of Abraham? I also.
Are they ministers of Christ? (As if I were crazy I speak). I more: in jobs, more abundant; on whips, without number; in prisons, more; in danger of death, many times.
From the Jews five times I have received forty lashes minus one.
Three times I have been beaten with rods; once stoned; three times I have suffered a shipwreck; one night and one day I have been adrift on the high seas;
on roads many times, dangers of rivers, dangers of thieves, dangers of those of my nation, dangers of the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the desert, dangers in the sea, dangers between false brothers;
in work and fatigue, in many sleeplessness, in hunger and thirst, in many fasts, in cold weather and in nakedness.
And besides those things, what weighs on me every day is the concern for all the churches.
Who is weak without my weakening? Who is stumbled, without my indignation?
If I need to glory, I will glory in what my weakness is.
The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
In Damascus, the governor of the province of King Aretas guarded the city of the Damascenos to arrest me;
and I was taken down from the wall in a basket by a window, and I escaped from his hands.