Now I, Paul, exhort you for the meekness and tenderness of Christ, I who in person am humble among you, but absent I am daring towards you!
I beg you, when I am present, not to have to use the audacity with which I am resolutely willing to proceed against some who think that we walk according to the flesh.
For although we walk in the flesh, we do not militate according to the flesh;
because the weapons of our militia are not carnal but powerful in God for the destruction of fortresses.
We destroy the arguments and all arrogance that rises against the knowledge of God; We take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ,
and we are ready to punish all disobedience, once your obedience is complete.
They look at things according to appearances! If someone is convinced within himself that he is Christ's, consider again that, just as he is Christ's, we are also Christ's.
For if I glory a little more in our authority, which the Lord has given us for edification and not for destruction, I will not be ashamed;
so it doesn't seem like I want to scare them by letters.
Because they say: "Although his letters are hard and strong, his physical presence is weak and his word is despicable."
Let this person take into account: What we are in word by letter when we are absent, the same we will also be in deeds when we are present.
Because we do not dare classify or compare ourselves with some that recommend themselves. But they, measuring and comparing themselves, are not judicious.
But we will not glory inordinate but according to the measure of the rule that God assigned us, to also reach you.
Because we did not go beyond our limits as if we had not reached you; because even we have come with the gospel of Christ,
not glorifying ourselves excessively in other people's works. Rather, we are hopeful that, as your faith progresses, our field among you will increase considerably, according to our standard;
so that we proclaim the gospel in the places beyond you, without entering other people's territory as to glory in the work already done by others.
But he who glories, glory in the Lord [a].
Because the one who recommends himself is not approved but the one whom God recommends.