I wish they could tolerate me a little madness! Really tolérenme!
Because I jealous you with a zeal for God, because I have married you with a single husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
But I am afraid that just as the serpent tricked Eve into deceiving you, your thoughts have somehow strayed from the simplicity and purity you owe to Christ.
Because if someone comes preaching to another Jesus to whom we have not preached, or if they receive a different spirit that they had not received or a different gospel that they had not accepted, how well they tolerate it!
Because I consider that I am in no way inferior to those eminent apostles;
for although I am poor in eloquence, I am not in knowledge as in everything I have shown you by all means.
Did I commit sin by humbling myself so that you may be exalted, because I have freely preached the gospel to you?
I have stripped other churches, receiving support to minister to you.
When I was among you and I needed none of you, I was a burden because what I lacked was provided by the brothers when they came from Macedonia. In everything I kept myself from being burdensome, and so I will keep myself.
For the truth of Christ that is in me, this reason for pride will not be denied me in the regions of Achaia!
Why? Why don't I love them? God knows.
But I will continue doing what I do, to take away the opportunity from those who want it, so that in what they boast they are in the same conditions as us.
Because such are false apostles, fraudulent workers disguised as apostles of Christ.
And it is not surprising, because Satan himself disguises himself as an angel of light.
So it is not a big deal that their ministers also disguise themselves as justification ministers whose end will be according to their works.
Again I say: no one take me crazy. But if not, receive me even if it's like crazy so I can boast even a little bit.
What I say now, I do not say according to the Lord, but as in madness, on this basis of boasting.
Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast.
Well, they gladly tolerate crazy people, being you sensible.
Because you tolerate it if someone enslaves you, if someone devours you, if someone takes advantage of you, if someone exalts himself, if someone hurts you in the face ...
Shamefully I say it, like we've been weak. But in what another dares (I speak madly), I also dare.
Are they Hebrews? I also. Are they Israelites? I also. Are they descendants of Abraham? I also.
Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as delirious). Me more! In hard work, more; in prisons, more; in lashes, without measure; in danger of death, many times.
Five times I have received from the Jews forty lashes minus one;
three times I have been flogged with rods; once I have been stoned; three times I have suffered a shipwreck; one night and one day I have been deep in the sea.
Many times I have been on foot trips, in dangers of rivers, in dangers of assailants, in dangers of those of my nation, in dangers of the Gentiles, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the desert, in dangers in the sea , in perils among false brothers;
in hard work and fatigue, in many sleeplessness, in hunger and thirst, in many fasts, in cold and nakedness.
And on top of everything, what crowds me every day: concern for all the churches.
Who gets sick without me not getting sick? Who is stumbled without my indignation?
If it is necessary to glory, I will glory in my weakness.
The God and Father of our Lord Jesus, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
In Damascus, the governor under King Aretas guarded the city of the Damascenos to seize me;
but I was taken down from the wall by a window in a basket, and I escaped from his hands.