Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and brother Timothy: To the church of God that is in Corinth, with all the saints that are in all Achaia:
Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies and God of all consolation,
which comforts us in all our tribulation, so that we can console those who are in any affliction with the consolation with which we ourselves are consoled by God.
For just as Christ's sufferings are ours in abundance, so also is our comfort through Christ.
But if we are troubled, it is for your comfort and salvation; or if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which works by enduring the same afflictions that we also suffer.
And our hope for you is firmly established, knowing that as you are partners in suffering, so are you in consolation.
Because we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, about our affliction suffered in Asia, because we were overwhelmed beyond measure, beyond our strength, so that we even lost hope of coming out alive.
In fact, within ourselves we already had the death sentence, so that we did not trust ourselves, but God who raises the dead,
who delivered us from such great danger of death and will deliver us, and in whom we have put our hope that He still has to deliver us,
You also cooperate with us with prayer, so that for many people they may be thanked in our favor for the gift that has been imparted to us through the prayers of many.
Because our satisfaction is this: the testimony of our conscience that in holiness and sincerity that comes from God, not in carnal wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world and especially towards you.
Because we write nothing else to you but what you read and understand, and I hope you will understand to the end,
just as you also understood in part that we are the reason for your glory, just as you are ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.
And with this confidence I decided to go first to you so that you would receive a blessing twice,
that is to say, I wanted to visit you on the way to Macedonia, and from Macedonia to come back to you and be guided by you on my journey to Judea.
So when I set out to do this, did I act rashly? Or what I propose, do I propose according to the flesh, so that in me there is at the same time the yes, yes, and the no, no?
But as God is faithful, our word to you is not yes and no.
Because the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us (by me and Silvanus and Timothy) was not yes and no, but has been yes in Him.
For as many as the promises of God are, in Him they are all yes; therefore also through Him, Amen, for the glory of God through us.
Now the one who confirms us with you in Christ and the one who anointed us is God,
who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
But I invoke God as a witness over my soul, that out of consideration for you I have not returned to Corinth.
It is not that we want to have control of your faith, but that we are collaborators with you for your joy; because in faith you remain firm.