Because we know that if the earthly tent that is our dwelling is destroyed, we have from God a building, a house not made by hands, eternal in heaven.
For, verily, in this abode we groan, longing to be clothed in our heavenly habitation;
and once clothed, we will not be found naked.
Because likewise, those of us in this store, moan overwhelmed, because we do not want to be undressed, but clothed, so that the mortal is absorbed by life.
And the one who prepared us for this very thing is God, who gave us the Spirit as guarantee.
Therefore, always encouraged and knowing that while we live in the body, we are absent from the Lord
(because by faith we walk, not by sight);
but we are encouraged and prefer to be absent from the body and to live with the Lord.
That is why, whether present or absent, we aim to be pleasant to you.
Because all of us must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one is rewarded for his deeds being in the body, according to what he did, be it good or bad.
Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are manifest to God, and I hope that we are also manifest in your consciences.
We do not recommend ourselves to you again, but we give you the opportunity to be proud of us, so that you have an answer for those who boast in appearances and not in the heart.
Because if we are crazy, it is for God; and if we are sane, it is for you.
For the love of Christ urges us, having reached this conclusion: that one died for all, therefore, all died;
and he died for all, so that those who live no longer live for themselves, but for the one who died and rose for them.
So we from now on know no one according to the flesh; Although we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we no longer know Him like this.
So if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; old things happened; behold, new things are made.
And all this comes from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;
namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not taking men into account their transgressions, and has entrusted to us the word of reconciliation.
Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as if God were pleading through us; in the name of Christ we ask you: be reconciled to God!
To him who knew no sin, he made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.