I, Paul, I beg you for the meekness and kindness of Christ, I, that when I am present I am certainly humble among you, but that when I am absent I am daring towards you,
I beg you, then, when I am present, I do not have to be daring with the daring with which I am willing to proceed resolutely against some who judge us as if we walked according to the flesh.
For although we walk in the flesh, we do not fight according to the flesh;
because the weapons of our fight are not carnal, but powerful in God for the destruction of fortresses,
destroying arguments, and all haughtiness that rises against the knowledge of God, and taking every thought captive to obedience to Christ;
and being ready to punish all disobedience, when your obedience is complete.
You look at things according to appearance. If anyone is trusting in himself that he is Christ's, let him also consider for himself that as he is Christ's, so we also are Christ's.
For even if I glory a little more in our authority (which the Lord gave us for edification and not for your destruction), I will not be ashamed;
so it doesn't seem like I want to scare you by letters.
Because in truth, they say, the letters are severe and strong; but the bodily presence, weak, and the word, negligible.
This should be taken into account by such a person, that just as we are in the word by letters, being absent, we will also be in deeds, being present.
Because we dare not count or compare ourselves with some who praise themselves; but they, measuring themselves and comparing themselves, are not judicious.
But we will not glory excessively, but according to the measure of the norm that God indicated to us, to also reach you.
Because we have not exceeded ourselves, as if we had not reached you, because we have also reached you with the gospel of Christ.
We do not glorify ourselves in other people's works, but we hope that as your faith grows, we will be very great among you, according to our norm.
Thus we will announce the gospel in the places beyond you, without entering into the work of another to glory in what was already prepared.
So let him who glories glory in the Lord,
for he who praises himself is not approved, but he whom God praises.