Therefore, having this ministry according to the mercy that we have obtained, we do not falter;
Rather, we renounce what is hidden and shameful, not walking with cunning, nor adulterating the word of God, but for the manifestation of the truth, recommending ourselves to all human conscience before God.
But if our gospel is still hidden, among those who are lost it is hidden;
in whom the god of this world blinded the understanding of unbelievers, so that the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, does not shine on them.
Because we do not preach ourselves, but Jesus Christ the Lord; and we are your servants because of Jesus.
For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, is the one who shone in our hearts, to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the excellence of power is from God, and not from us;
we are troubled in everything, but not distressed; hard-pressed, but not desperate;
persecuted, but not helpless; killed, but not destroyed;
We always carry the death of Jesus in our bodies, so that the life of Jesus can also be manifested in our bodies.
Because we who live are always committed to death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal flesh.
So death works in us, but in you, life.
But having the same spirit of faith, according to what is written: I believed, for which I spoke; we also believe, for which we also speak;
knowing that he who raised up the Lord Jesus will also raise us up through Jesus, and will present us together with you.
For we suffer all these things for you, so that grace abounding through many, thanksgiving may abound for the glory of God.
Therefore, we do not falter; rather, although our outer man is wearing away, the inner, however, is renewed day by day.
Because this momentary and slight tribulation of ours produces an ever more and eternal weight of glory;
not looking at the things that are seen, but those that are not seen, because the things that are seen are temporary, but those that are not seen are eternal.