Because we know that if our earthly dwelling, this tabernacle, falls apart, we have a building from God, a house not made by hands, eternal, in the heavens.
And in this we also groan, wishing to be clothed in that, our heavenly room,
since in truth we will be found clothed, and not naked.
For likewise we who are in this tabernacle groan in distress, because we do not want to be undressed, but clothed, so that what is mortal may be absorbed by life.
But the one who made us for this very purpose is God, who has given us the guarantee of the Spirit.
So we live trusting always, and knowing that while we are in the body, we make pilgrimages absent from the Lord
(because by faith we walk, not by sight);
but we trust, and more we would like to be absent from the body, and to be present before the Lord.
Therefore, we also try, either absent or present, to be pleasant to you;
for it is necessary that all of us appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one receives according to what he has done while he was in the body, whether it is good or bad.
Knowing, therefore, the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but what we are is manifest to God; and I hope we are also in your consciences.
Therefore, we do not recommend ourselves to you again, but we give you the opportunity to glory for us, so that you have to respond to those who glory in appearances, and not in the heart.
Because if we have lost our reason, it is for God; and if we are sane, it is for you.
Because the love of Christ urges us, thinking this: That if one died for all, consequently, all died;
and he died for all, so that those who live no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose for them.
So that henceforth we know no one according to the flesh; and even if we knew Christ according to the flesh, now we no longer know him that way.
So if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; old things happened; behold, all are made new.
And all this comes from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation,
namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not taking their sins into account; and he has entrusted us with the word of reconciliation.
So we are ambassadors in the name of Christ, as if God were pleading through us; we beg you in the name of Christ: be reconciled to God.
To him who knew no sin, he made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.