Therefore, having this ministry according to the mercy that was given to us, we do not lose heart.
But we reject the tapujos of shame, not proceeding with cunning, nor adulterating the word of God but, by the clear demonstration of the truth, we recommend ourselves to all human conscience before God.
But even if our gospel is hidden, it is hidden among those who perish.
For the god of this present age has blinded the understanding of unbelievers so that the brightness of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, does not illuminate them.
Because we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord; and us as your servants because of Jesus.
Because the God who said: "The light will shine from the darkness" is the one who has shone in our hearts to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
All in all, we have this treasure in clay vessels so that the excellence of power is from God and not from us.
We are troubled in everything but not distressed; perplexed but not desperate;
persecuted but not helpless; killed but not destroyed.
We always carry the death of Jesus in our bodies everywhere so that the life of Jesus is also manifested in our bodies.
Because we who live are always exposed to death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus is also manifested in our mortal flesh.
So death works in us, but life works in you.
However, we have the same spirit of faith according to what is written: I believed; therefore I spoke [to]. We also believe; therefore we also talk,
knowing that the one who resurrected the Lord Jesus will also resurrect us with Jesus and will present us at his side together with you.
For all these things happen because of you so that, as grace increases through many, thanksgiving may abound for the glory of God.
Therefore, we do not lose heart; rather, although our outer man is wearing away, the inner, nevertheless, is being renewed day by day.
Because our momentary and slight tribulation produces for us an eternal weight of glory more than incomparable;
not fixing our eyes on things that are seen but on those that are not seen; because those that are seen are temporary, while those that are not seen are eternal.