Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and brother Timothy; to the church of God that is in Corinth, together with all the saints that are in all Achaia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies and God of all consolation,
who comforts us in all our tribulations. In this way, with the consolation with which we ourselves are comforted by God, we too can comfort those who are in any tribulation.
For just as the afflictions of Christ abound in our behalf, so our consolation for Christ himself abounds.
But if we are troubled, it is for your comfort and salvation; or if we are consoled, it is for your consolation, which results in your persevering under the same afflictions that we also suffer.
And our hope for you is firm, for we know that just as you are companions in afflictions, you are also companions in consolation.
Because we don't want you to be ignorant, brothers, about the tribulation that happened to us in Asia; for we were overwhelmed beyond measure, until we even lost hope of living.
But we already had in ourselves the death sentence, so that we did not trust ourselves but in God who raises the dead,
who delivered us and delivers us from such a terrible death. And in him we have put our hope that he will still deliver us,
because you are also cooperating in our favor with prayers, so that the gift that was granted to us is so that many people give thanks in our favor.
Because our motive for glory is this: the testimony of our conscience that we have conducted ourselves in the world (and especially before you), with simplicity [a] and sincerity that comes from God, and not in human wisdom but in grace of God.
Because we do not write anything other than what they read and also understand; and I hope that until the end they will understand them,
as you have also understood in part, that we are your reason for glory, just as you will be for us in the day of our Lord Jesus.
With this confidence I wanted to come to you before so that you would have a second grace,
and go from you to Macedonia; and return again from Macedonia to you to be directed by you to Judea.
That being my desire, did I use lightness? Or is it that what I want to do I want according to the flesh; so that there is a "yes, yes" and a "no, no" in me?
But God is faithful: Our word to you is not "yes and no".
Because Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who has been preached among you by us (by me, by Silas [b] and by Timothy), was not "yes and no"; rather, it was "yes" on it.
Because all the promises of God are in him "yes" and, therefore, also through him we say "amen" to God, for his glory through us.
And God is the one who confirms us with you in Christ and the one who anointed us;
He is also the one who has sealed us and has put the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
But I invoke God as a witness over my soul, which is out of consideration for you that I have not yet passed to Corinth.
Because we are not ruling over your faith. Rather, we are collaborators for their joy, because by faith they are firm.