So, beloved, since we have these promises, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Let us in. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have cheated no one.
I am not saying this to condemn you; for I have said before that you are in our hearts, to die and to live together.
I have a lot of frankness with you; I very much glory in you. I am full of consolation; overflowing with joy in all our tribulations.
Because when we came to Macedonia, our body had no rest, but in everything we were troubled; from outside, conflicts; from within, fears.
But God, who consoles the humble, consoled us with the coming of Titus;
and not only with his coming, but also with the comfort with which he had been comforted about you, letting us know your great longing, your weeping, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced even more.
Because although I grieved you with that letter, it does not weigh me, although it weighed me then, for I see that that letter, although for some time, grieved you.
Now I rejoice, not because you have been grieved, but because you were grieved for repentance, because you have been grieved according to God, so that you would not suffer any loss on our part.
Because the sadness that is according to God produces repentance for salvation, of which there is no need to repent; but the sadness of the world produces death.
For behold, this very thing that you have been grieved according to God, what solicitude has produced in you, what defense, what indignation, what fear, what great longing, what zeal and what vindication! In everything you have shown clear in this matter.
So even though I wrote to you, it was not because of the one who committed the wrong, nor because of the one who suffered it, but so that our request that we have for you before God would be evident to you.
Therefore we have been comforted in your comfort; but we rejoice much more for the joy of Titus, whose spirit has been comforted by all of you.
For if I have glorified anything about you about him, I have not been ashamed, but just as everything we had said to you was true, also to have glorified before Titus was true.
And his tender affections are more abundant towards you, when he remembers the obedience of all of you, how you received him with fear and trembling.
I enjoy that in everything I have confidence in you.