Therefore, beloved, having these promises, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Accept us in your heart; we have offended no one, we have corrupted no one, we have not taken advantage of anyone.
I do not speak to condemn you; Because I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together.
Much is my trust in you, I am very proud of you, I am full of comfort and overflowing with joy in all our affliction.
For even when we arrived in Macedonia, our body did not have any rest, but we were troubled on all sides: on the outside, conflicts; inside, fears.
But God, who consoles the depressed, consoled us with the arrival of Titus;
and not only with his arrival, but also with the consolation with which he was comforted in you, letting us know your great affection, your weeping and your zeal for me; so I rejoiced even more.
Because although I made you sad with my letter, it doesn't weigh me down; even when it weighed me down, because I see that that letter caused you sadness, although only for a short time;
But now I rejoice, not that you were saddened, but that you were saddened to repentance; because you were saddened according to the will of God, so that you would not suffer any loss on our part.
Because the sadness that is in accordance with the will of God produces a repentance that leads to salvation, without regret; but the sadness of the world produces death.
For look, what solicitude has this produced in you, this pious sadness, what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what great affection, what zeal, what punishment of evil! In everything you have proven to be innocent in the matter.
So even though I wrote to you, it was not because of the offender, or because of the offended, but so that your concern for us might be revealed to you before God.
For this reason we have been comforted. And apart from our comfort, we rejoice much more for the joy of Titus, for his spirit has been comforted by all of you.
Because if I boasted to you about anything about you, I was not embarrassed, but just as we told you everything with truth, so also our boast before Tito turned out to be the truth.
And his love for you abounds even more when he remembers the obedience of all of you, and how you received it with fear and trembling.
I enjoy that in everything I have confidence in you.