Now, brothers, we present to you the grace of God that has been given in the churches of Macedonia;
for in the midst of a great trial of affliction, his joy abounded, and his deep poverty abounded in the richness of his liberality.
Because I testify that according to their possibilities, and even beyond their possibilities, they gave of their own free will,
pleading with us many times for the privilege of participating in the support of the saints;
and this not as we had expected, but first they gave themselves to the Lord, and then to us by the will of God.
Consequently, we prayed to Titus that as he had already begun before, so too he would carry out in you this work of grace.
But just as you abound in everything: in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all solicitude, and in the love that we have inspired in you, see that you also abound in this work of grace.
I do not say this as a command, but to prove, at the request of others, also the sincerity of your love.
Because you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that being rich, nevertheless out of love for you became poor, so that through your poverty you would become rich.
And I give my opinion on this matter, because this suits you, who were the first to start a year ago not only to do this, but also to want to do it.
Now then, just do it too; so that as there was the good will to desire it, so there is also the will to carry it out according to what you have.
Because if there is good will, it is accepted according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.
This is not for the comfort of others and for your affliction, but for equality;
at the present moment your abundance supplies their need, so that their abundance also supplies your need, so that there is equality.
As it is written: He who gathered much did not have much; and he who gathered little had no shortage.
But thank God that he puts the same request for you in the heart of Titus.
For he not only accepted our plea, but, being himself very diligent, he has come to you of his own free will.
And together with him we have sent the brother whose fame in the things of the gospel has been spread by all the churches;
and not only this, but he has also been designated by the churches as our traveling companion in this work of grace, which is administered by us for the glory of the Lord himself, and to manifest our good will;
taking care that no one discredits us in this generous offering administered by us;
for we care about what is honest, not only in the eyes of the Lord, but also in the eyes of men.
And with them we have sent our brother, whom we have often found to be diligent in many things, but who is now much more diligent because of his great trust in you.
As for Tito, he is my partner and collaborator among you; as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches and glory of Christ.
Therefore, openly show them before the churches the proof of your love, and of our reason to boast about you.