Because we know that if our earthly house, this temporary tent, falls apart, we have a building from God, a house not made of hands, eternal in heaven.
For in this tent we groan, wishing to be overdressed in our heavenly room;
and although we shall be undressed, we shall not be found naked.
Because those of us in this store moan overwhelmed, because we do not want to be undressed but overdressed, so that what is mortal is absorbed by life.
For it is God who made us for this very purpose, who has given us the guarantee of the Spirit.
This is how we live, always trusting and understanding that during our stay in the body we pilgrimage absent from the Lord.
Because we walk by faith, not by sight.
For we trust and consider it best to be absent from the body, and to be present before the Lord.
Therefore, whether we are present or absent, our desire is to be pleasant to you.
Because it is necessary that all of us appear before the Judgment Seat of Christ so that each one receives according to what he has done through the body, whether good or bad.
Knowing, then, the fear of the Lord, we persuade men; Well, what we are is manifest to God, and I hope that it is also to their consciences.
We do not recommend ourselves to you again, but we give you an opportunity to glory for us so that you have an answer to those who glory in appearances and not in the heart.
Because if we are outside of ourselves, it is for God; or if we are in our judgment, it is for you.
Because the love of Christ impels us, considering this: that one died for all; therefore they all died.
And he died for all so that those who live no longer live for themselves but for the one who died and rose for them.
So we henceforth know no one according to the flesh; and even if we have known Christ according to the flesh, now we no longer know Him that way.
So if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; old things happened; behold, all are made new.
And all this comes from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and has given us the ministry of reconciliation:
that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not taking their transgressions into account and entrusting to us the word of reconciliation.
So we are ambassadors in the name of Christ; and as God exhorts you through us, we beg you in the name of Christ: be reconciled to God!
To him who knew no sin, God made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.