Now, brothers, we make known to you the grace of God that has been granted to the churches of Macedonia;
that in great trial of tribulation, the abundance of his joy and his extreme poverty abounded in the riches of his generosity.
Because I testify that spontaneously they have given according to their strength, and even beyond their strength,
With many requests, we ask that we grant them the grace to participate in helping the saints.
And surpassing what we expected, they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us, by the will of God.
So we exhorted Titus to carry out this grace among you as it had already begun.
Therefore, just as you already abound in everything - in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all diligence and in love towards us - you also abound in this grace.
I do not speak as the boss but to also test, by the effectiveness of others, the sincerity of your love.
Because you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ who, being rich, for your sake became poor so that with your poverty you would be enriched.
And here I give my advice; Because this is convenient for you who, since last year, took the initiative, not only to do it but also to want to do it.
Now, then, bring the fact to its culmination so that, as you were ready to want, so be it to fulfill according to what you have.
Because if the will is first arranged, it is accepted according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.
But I am not saying this so that there may be relief for others and narrowness for you,
but for equality. At this time their abundance supplies what they lack, so that their abundance also supplies what they lack, so that there is equality;
as it is written: He who gathered much had no more, and he who gathered little had no less [a].
Thank God that he put in the heart of Titus the same request for you.
For he, in truth, accepted the exhortation; but being also very solicitous, from his own initiative he started towards you.
And we sent along with him the brother whose reputation in the gospel is heard in all churches.
And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches as a traveling companion, to carry this expression of generosity that is administered by us for the glory of the Lord himself and to demonstrate our concern,
preventing anyone from discrediting us regarding this abundant donation that we administer.
Because we try to make things honest, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
And we sent with them our brother, whose diligence we have verified many times; but now much more, because of the great confidence he has in you.
As for Tito, he is my partner and collaborator with you; and as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches and glory of Christ.
Show, therefore, to them before the churches the proof of their love and of our pride in you.