Simon Peter, servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith like ours, through the justice of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:
Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
For his divine power has granted us all that concerns life and godliness, through the true knowledge of the one who called us by his glory and excellence,
by means of which he has given us his precious and wonderful promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
For this reason also, working with all diligence, add to your faith, virtue, and to virtue, knowledge;
to knowledge, self-control, self-control, perseverance, and perseverance, piety,
to piety, brotherhood and brotherhood, love.
For these virtues, being in you and abounding, will not leave you idle or sterile in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Because he who lacks these virtues is blind or short-sighted, having forgotten the purification of his past sins.
So, brothers, be all the more diligent to make firm your call and election from God; for as long as you do these things you will never stumble;
for in this way you will be widely granted entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Therefore, I will always be ready to remind you of these things, although you already know them and have been confirmed in the truth that is present in you.
And I consider it fair, while in this body, to stimulate you by reminding you of these things,
knowing that my separation from the earthly body is imminent, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has declared to me.
I too will diligently see to it that you remember these things at all times after my departure.
Because when we made known to you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, we did not follow ingeniously invented fables, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
For when He received honor and glory from God the Father, the majestic Glory made this declaration to him: This is my beloved Son in whom I have been pleased;
and we ourselves hear this statement, made from heaven when we were with Him on the holy mountain.
And so we have the surest prophetic word, which you do well to pay attention to as a lamp that shines in the dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star appears in your hearts.
But first of all know this, that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of personal interpretation,
for no prophecy was ever given by an act of human will, but men inspired by the Holy Spirit spoke from God.