Beloved, I am writing this second letter to you now, and in both I awake with exhortation your clean understanding,
so that you may remember the words that were previously spoken by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Savior given by us, the apostles;
knowing this first, that in the last days scoffers will come, walking according to their own lusts,
and saying: Where is the promise of his coming? Because from the day the parents slept, all things remain as from the beginning of creation.
They are willingly unaware that the heavens existed from ancient times, and that the earth arose out of water and through water and was established by the word of God,
therefore the world of then perished flooded in water.
But the heavens and the earth that exist now are reserved by the same word, saved for the fire on the day of judgment and of the perdition of wicked men.
But, beloved, do not ignore this, that for the Lord one day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day.
The Lord does not take long to fulfill his promise, as some understand the delay, but he is patient with us, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in which the heavens will pass with a great noise, and the elements, burning, will be undone, and the earth and the works that are in it will be burned.
Since all these things are to be undone, what kind of people are you to be in holy conduct and godliness,
waiting and hastening for the coming of the day of God, in which the heavens, being lighted, will be undone, and the elements will melt with scorching heat?
But we hope, according to his promise, new heavens and a new earth, in which justice dwells.
Wherefore, dearly beloved, while awaiting these things, diligently seek to be found by him without blemish, and without reproof, in peace.
And consider the patience of our Lord as salvation; as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom that has been given him, has written to you,
almost in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; among which are some difficult to understand, which the unlearned and fickle twist, as well as the other Scriptures, to their own doom.
So you, beloved, knowing these things beforehand, keep yourselves, lest by the error of the wicked you be led astray and fall from your steadfastness.
Rather, grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory now and until the day of eternity. Amen.