Beloved, this is already the second letter that I am writing to you, in which, as a reminder, I awaken in you your sincere understanding,
so that you remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Savior declared by your apostles.
First of all, know this: that in the last days scoffers will come, with their arcasm, following their own passions,
and saying: Where is the promise of his coming? Because since the parents slept, everything continues as it was from the beginning of creation.
Well, when they say this, they don't realize that the heavens existed for a long time, and also the earth, emerged from the water and established among the waters by the word of God,
therefore the world of that time was destroyed, being flooded with water;
but the heavens and the earth today are reserved by their word for fire, saved for the day of judgment and the destruction of the wicked.
But, beloved, do not ignore this: that for the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years is like one day.
The Lord does not take long to fulfill his promise, as some understand the delay, but he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass by with a great noise, and the elements will be destroyed with intense fire, and the earth and the works that are in it will be burned.
Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, what kind of people should you not be in holy conduct and godliness,
waiting and hastening the coming of the day of God, in which the heavens will be destroyed by fire and the elements will melt with intense heat!
But, according to his promise, we await new heavens and a new earth, in which justice dwells.
Therefore, beloved, since you await these things, diligently seek to be found by Him in peace, without spot and blameless,
and consider the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote you, according to the wisdom that was given to him.
Likewise in all his letters he speaks in them of this; in which there are some things difficult to understand, that the ignorant and unstable twist — as the rest of the Scriptures also twist — to their own perdition.
Therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on your guard, lest, dragged by the error of libertine men, you fall from your firmness;
Rather, grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory now and until the day of eternity. Amen.