Simon Peter, servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to whom you have attained a faith equally precious as ours by the justice of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
Grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God and of our Lord Jesus.
Like all things pertaining to life and godliness have been given to us by his divine power, by the knowledge of him who has called us by his glory and virtue,
through which he has given us very great and precious promises, that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having fled from the corruption that is in the world through lust.
You too, for this very reason, put all diligence into adding virtue to your faith; and to virtue, knowledge;
and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and patience, pity;
and to piety, brotherly affection; and to brotherly affection, love.
For if these things are in you and abound, they will not let you be idle or fruitless in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But he who does not have these things has a very short sight; he is blind, having forgotten the purification of his old sins.
Therefore, brothers, all the more try to make your vocation and election firm, because by doing these things, you will never fall.
Because in this way you will be widely granted entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
For this reason, I will not fail to always remind you of these things, even if you know them and are confirmed in the present truth.
Because I consider it fair, while I am in this tabernacle, to urge you to remember,
knowing that soon I will have to leave this, my tabernacle, as our Lord Jesus Christ has declared it to me.
I, too, will diligently see to it that after my death you can always have a memory of these things.
Because we have not made known to you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, following cleverly invented fables, but with our own eyes we have seen his majesty.
For he received honor and glory from God the Father, when a voice was sent to him from the magnificent glory, saying: This is my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And we heard this voice sent from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain.
We also have the surest prophetic word, to which you do well to be attentive as to a torch that lights in a dark place until the day is clear, and the morning star rises in your hearts,
first understanding this: that no prophecy of Scripture is of private interpretation,
because the prophecy was never given by human will, but the holy men of God spoke being inspired by the Holy Spirit.