Simon Peter, servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have reached an equally precious faith as ours by the justice of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of our Lord Jesus.
His divine power has granted us all things pertaining to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence [a].
Through them precious and great promises have been given to us, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature after having fled from the corruption that exists in the world due to low passions.
And for this very reason, making every effort, add virtue to your faith; to virtue, knowledge;
to knowledge, self-control; to self-control, perseverance, to perseverance, devotion;
to devotion, brotherly affection; and to brotherly affection, love.
Because when these things are in you and abound, they will not let you be idle or sterile in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the one who does not have these things is blind and has a short sight, having forgotten the purification of his past sins.
Therefore, brothers, try even harder to make your calling and election firm, because in doing these things you will never stumble.
For in this way they will be granted ample entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Therefore, I will always bring these things to your memory, although you know them and are affirmed in the truth that is present in you.
But I consider it fair to stimulate your memory while I am in this my temporary dwelling [b].
Well, as I know that soon I will have to leave my fragile dwelling [c], as our Lord Jesus Christ has declared to me,
I will also endeavor to ensure that after my departure you can have a memory of these things at all times.
Because we have made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ not by following artificial fables, but because we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
Because when receiving from God the Father honor and glory, from the great glory a voice was addressed to him: "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased".
And we heard this voice directed from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain.
We also have the prophetic word that is even firmer. You do well to be attentive to it like a torch that lights in a dark place, until the day clears and the morning star rises in your heart.
And it must be borne in mind, first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture is of private interpretation,
because the prophecy was never brought by human will; on the contrary, men spoke on behalf of God [d] being inspired by the Holy Spirit.