Beloved, this is the second letter I write to you. In these two letters I encourage with exhortation your clean understanding,
so that they remember the words that were previously spoken by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Savior declared by your apostles [a].
First of all, know that in the last days scoffers will come with their taunts, who will proceed according to their low passions
and they will say: "Where is the promise of his coming? Because from the day that our parents slept all things remain the same, as well as from the beginning of creation."
Well, of their own free will they ignore this: that by the word of God the heavens existed since ancient times, and the earth that emerged from the water and was settled in the middle of the water.
This is why the world then was destroyed, flooded with water.
But by the same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are reserved for fire; kept until the day of judgment and the destruction of wicked men.
But, beloved, do not overlook one thing: that one day before the Lord is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day.
The Lord does not delay his promise, as some take it for delay; rather, he is patient with you [b] because he does not want anyone to be lost but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief [c]. Then the heavens will pass with a great noise; the elements, burning, will be undone; and the earth and the works that are in it will be consumed.
Since all these things are to be undone, what kind of people must you be in holy and godly conduct,
waiting and rushing for the coming of God's day! Because of that day the heavens, being lighted, will be undone; and the elements, when scorched, will be cast.
According to God's promises we await new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells.
Therefore, beloved, while waiting for these things, endeavor to be found in peace by him, without spot and blameless.
Consider that the patience of our Lord is for salvation; just as our beloved brother Paul has written to you, according to the wisdom that has been given him.
He speaks of these things in all his epistles, in which there are some difficult things to understand that the unlearned and fickle twist, as they also do with the other Scriptures for their own destruction.
So you, beloveds, knowing this beforehand, beware; lest, being led astray by the deceit of the wicked, they fall from their steadfastness.
Rather, grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory now and until the day of eternity. Amen [d].