But there were false prophets among the people, as well as among you there will be false teachers who will covertly introduce destructive heresies, even going so far as to deny the sovereign Lord who bought them, bringing upon themselves a sudden destruction.
And many will follow after their sensuality, and because of them the path of truth will be slandered.
Out of greed they will make merchandise of you with pretended words. For a long time their condemnation is not long and their destruction does not sleep.
For if God did not leave the angels who sinned without punishment, but, having cast them into hell into prisons [of] darkness, delivered them up to be reserved for judgment;
and if he did not leave the ancient world without punishment either, but he preserved Noah, herald of justice, along with seven other people when he brought the flood on the world of the wicked;
and if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by reducing them to ashes and setting them as an example for those who were to live wickedly;
and if he rescued the righteous Lot, who was harassed for the sensual behavior of the wicked
—Because this righteous man dwelt in their midst and afflicted his righteous soul from day to day by their wicked deeds;
Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trial and save the unjust to be punished on the day of judgment.
And especially to those who walk after the perverted passions of the flesh and despise all authority! These bold and arrogant are not afraid to curse the higher powers,
while angels, who are greater in strength and power, do not pronounce a curse judgment against them before the Lord.
But these, cursing what they do not understand, like irrational animals that by nature have been created for prey and destruction, will also perish in their perdition.
They will receive injustice as payment for injustice because they consider it delightful to enjoy sensual pleasures in the middle of the day. These are stains and dirt that, as they eat with you, delight in your deceptions.
Their eyes are full of adultery and they are insatiable for sin. They seduce fickle souls. They have an exercised heart for greed. They are children of curse.
Abandoning the straight path they went astray by following the path of Balaam son of Beor, who loved the payment of injustice
and he was rebuked for his iniquity. A mute beast of burden, speaking in a man's voice, stopped the madness of the prophet!
They are waterless fountains and storm-blown clouds. For them the deep darkness of darkness has been kept [b].
Because, speaking arrogant words of vanity, they seduce with the sensual passions of the flesh those who have barely escaped from those who live in error.
They promise them freedom, when they themselves are slaves of corruption; since each one is made slave of what has overcome him.
Because if those who have escaped the contaminations of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ become entangled in them again and are overcome, the last state becomes worse than the first.
For it would have been better for them not to have known the path of justice than, after knowing it, to go back from the holy commandment that was given to them.
The successful proverb has happened to them: The dog turned to his own vomit [c]; and "the washed sow, to wallow in the mud."