But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you who will covertly introduce destructive heresies, and even deny the Lord who rescued them, drawing upon themselves sudden destruction.
And many will follow their lusts, and because of them, the way of truth will be blasphemed;
and out of greed they will exploit you with pretended words. Upon them the old damnation is not long, and their doom is not asleep.
For if God did not forgive the angels who sinned, but, having cast them into hell, he delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved for judgment;
and if he did not spare the ancient world, but protected Noah, the crier of justice, with seven other people, by bringing the flood on the world of the wicked;
and if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction, reducing them to ashes, and setting them as an example to those who were to live wickedly,
and if he delivered the righteous Lot, overwhelmed by the licentious conduct of the wicked
(for this righteous man, while dwelling among them, afflicted his righteous soul every day, seeing and hearing their wicked deeds);
Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly from temptation, and reserve the unjust to be punished on the day of judgment;
and mainly to those who, following the flesh, walk in lust and filth, and despise authority; daring, stubborn, not afraid to speak ill of the higher powers,
while the angels themselves, who are greater in strength and power, do not pronounce a curse judgment against them before the Lord.
But these, speaking ill of things that they do not understand, like natural irrational animals, born for prey and destruction, will perish in their own corruption,
receiving the payment of their injustice, since they consider delight the enjoyment of delights in broad daylight. These are filth and stains, who even while they eat with you rejoice in their mistakes;
their eyes are full of adultery, and they do not stop sinning; they seduce fickle souls; their hearts are trained in greed; they are sons of curse
that they have left the straight path, and have wandered, following the path of Balaam son of Beor, the one who loved the payment of evil.
And he was rebuked for his iniquity, for a mute beast of burden, speaking in the voice of a man, restrained the madness of the prophet.
Those are fountains without water and mists pushed by a whirlwind of wind, for whom the darkness of darkness is reserved forever.
Because speaking arrogant words of vanity, they seduce with the lusts of the flesh and lusts those who had truly escaped from those who live in error;
They promise them freedom, being themselves slaves to corruption. For he who is overcome by one is made a slave to him who overcame him.
Certainly, if, having escaped the contaminations of the world, through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and again become entangled in them and are overcome, their final state becomes worse than the first.
For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of justice than, after having known it, to depart from the holy commandment that was given to them.
But the proverb has rightly happened to them: The dog returns to its vomit, and the washed pig, to roll in the mud.