But false prophets arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you, who will covertly introduce destructive heresies, denying even the Lord who bought them, bringing upon themselves sudden destruction.
Many will follow their sensuality, and because of them, the path of truth will be blasphemed;
and in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their judgment has not been idle for a long time, nor is their doom asleep.
For if God did not forgive the angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and delivered them into ditches of darkness, reserved for judgment;
if he did not spare the ancient world, but kept Noah, a preacher of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought the flood upon the world of the wicked;
if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction, reducing them to ashes, setting them up as an example for those who would later live wickedly;
if he rescued the righteous Lot, overwhelmed by the sensual behavior of libertine men
(because that righteous man, because of what he saw and heard while living among them, daily felt his righteous soul tormented by his wicked deeds),
the Lord, then, knows how to rescue the godly from temptation, and reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment,
especially those who walk after the flesh in their corrupted desires and despise authority. Daring and stubborn, they do not tremble when they blaspheme the angelic majesties,
when the angels, who are greater in strength and power, do not pronounce injurious judgment against them before the Lord.
But these, like irrational animals, born as creatures of instinct to be captured and destroyed, blaspheming what they ignore, will also be destroyed with the destruction of those creatures,
suffering evil as payment for his iniquity. They count for delight walking in dissolute pleasures during the day; they are stains and filth, reveling in their deceptions as they feast on you.
Their eyes are full of adultery and they never stop sinning; they seduce unstable souls; they have a heart exercised in greed; they are children of curse.
Abandoning the straight path, they have strayed, following the path of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the payment of iniquity,
but he was rebuked for his transgression, for a mute beast of burden, speaking with a human voice, repressed the madness of the prophet.
These are springs without water, haze driven by a storm, for whom the darkness of darkness is reserved.
For speaking with arrogance and vanity, they seduce by carnal desires, by sensuality, those who recently escaped from those who live in error.
They promise freedom, while they themselves are slaves of corruption, for one is a slave to that which has overcome him.
Because if after having escaped from the contaminations of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and defeated, their last condition becomes worse than the first.
For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of justice, than having known it, to depart from the holy commandment that was given to them.
It has happened to them according to the true proverb: The dog returns to its own vomit, and: The washed sow, returns to wallow in the mud.