But regarding the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our meeting with Him, we beg you, brothers,
May you not be easily shaken in your way of thinking, nor be alarmed, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as if it were from us, in the sense that the day of the Lord has arrived.
Let no one deceive you in any way, because it will not come without the apostasy first coming and the man of sin, the son of perdition being revealed,
who opposes and exalts himself above everything that is called god or is the object of worship, so that he sits in the temple of God, presenting himself as if he were God.
Don't you remember that when I was still with you I was saying this to you?
And you know what is holding it back for now, to be revealed in due course.
Because the mystery of iniquity is already at work, only the one who stops it for now, will do it until he himself is removed from the middle.
And then that wicked one will be revealed, whom the Lord will kill with the spirit of his mouth, and will destroy with the brightness of his coming;
wicked whose coming is according to the activity of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deceit of iniquity for those who are lost, because they did not receive the love of the truth to be saved.
This is why God will send you a deceptive power, so that you believe in the lie,
so that all those who did not believe in the truth but were pleased with iniquity may be judged.
But we always have to thank God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth.
And it was for this that He called you through our gospel, to achieve the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, brothers, be firm and preserve the doctrines that were taught to you, already by word, or by our letter.
And that our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope by grace,
comfort your hearts and affirm you in every good deed and word.
