You therefore, my son, strengthen yourself in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
What you heard from me through many witnesses, this instructs faithful men who are suitable to teach others as well.
You, therefore, share in the sufferings as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No one in the military campaign gets involved in the business of life, in order to please the one who enlisted him as a soldier.
Also, if an athlete competes, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.
The hard-working farmer is the one who must first receive his share of the fruits.
Consider well what I say because the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the descendants of David, according to my gospel.
For him I endure sufferings even prisons, as if he were an evildoer. But the word of God is not caught!
Therefore, I suffer everything for the elect so that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory.
Faithful is this word: If we die with him, we will also live with him.
If we persevere, we will also reign with him. If we deny it, he will also deny us.
If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, because he cannot deny himself.
Remind them of this, requiring them before God not to quarrel over words, which he does not profit at all but leads to ruin those who hear.
Try diligently to present yourself to God approved, as a worker who does not have to be ashamed, who traces the word of truth well.
But avoid profane and vain talk, because they will lead more and more to impiety.
And their word will eat up like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Filetus [a],
who have gone astray regarding the truth, holding that the resurrection has already occurred, and upset the faith of some.
In spite of everything, the solid foundation of God remains firm, bearing this seal: The Lord knows those who are his [b] and "Let all who call on the name of the Lord [c] depart from iniquity."
But in a big house, there are not only glasses of gold and silver but also of wood and clay. In addition, some have special purposes and others have common purposes.
So if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor, consecrated and useful to the Lord, prepared for every good work.
So flee from youthful passions and follow justice, faith, love and peace with those who with a pure heart invoke the Lord.
But avoid foolish and ignorant arguments knowing that they spawn strife.
For the Lord's servant should not be contentious but kind to everyone, capable of teaching and suffering;
meekly correcting those who oppose, in case God may grant them to repent to understand the truth
and escape the trap of the devil, who holds them captive at his will.