You, then, my son, strengthen yourself in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, that instructs faithful men who are suitable to teach others as well.
He suffers hardships with me, like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No soldier on active duty is entangled in the affairs of daily life, in order to please the one who recruited him as a soldier.
And also the one who competes as an athlete, does not win the prize if he does not compete according to the rules.
The working farmer must be the first to receive his share of the fruits.
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, descendant of David, according to my gospel;
for which I suffer penalties, even imprisonment as a criminal; but the word of God is not caught.
Therefore, I endure everything for the love of the elect, so that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, and with it eternal glory.
Faithful word is this: That if we die with Him, we will also live with Him;
if we persevere, we will also reign with him; if we deny Him, He will also deny us;
if we are unfaithful, He remains faithful, because he cannot deny himself.
Remind them of this, solemnly instructing them in the presence of God, not to quarrel over words, which in no way takes advantage and leads listeners to ruin.
Try diligently to present yourself to God approved, as a worker who does not have to be ashamed, who precisely handles the word of truth.
Avoid empty and profane talk, because those given to them will lead more and more to wickedness,
and his word will spread like gangrene; among which are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
that they have deviated from the truth saying that the resurrection has already taken place, thus upsetting the faith of some.
However, the solid foundation of God remains firm, bearing this seal: The Lord knows those who are his, and: Let all who mention the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.
Now, in a large house there are not only glasses of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, and some for honor and others for disgrace.
Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to the Lord, prepared for every good work.
So flee from youthful passions and follow justice, faith, love and peace, with those who invoke the Lord with a pure heart.
But he rejects foolish and ignorant reasoning, knowing that it produces altercations.
And the Lord's servant should not be contentious, but kind to everyone, able to teach, suffered,
tenderly correcting those who oppose, just in case God gives them repentance that leads to full knowledge of the truth,
and coming to their senses, they escape the devil's snare, having been held captive by him to do his will.
