Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus;
Timothy, beloved son: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I worship with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, that I constantly remember you in my prayers at night and day.
I have remembered your tears and I wish to see you to be full of joy.
I bring to mind the unfeigned faith in you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Loida and your mother Eunice, and I am convinced that it is also in you.
For this reason, I remind you again to revive the gift of God that is in you through the imposition of my hands.
Because God has not given us a spirit of cowardice but of power, love and self-control.
Therefore do not be ashamed to bear witness to our Lord or to me, his prisoner. Rather, share with me the sufferings for the gospel, according to the power of God.
It was he who saved us and called us with holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time
and now it has been manifested by the appearance of our Savior Jesus Christ. He nullified death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
of which I have been appointed as a preacher, apostle and teacher [a].
For this reason I suffer these things, but I am not ashamed because I know who I have believed, and I am convinced that he is powerful to keep my deposit for that day.
Keep in mind the model of the healthy words you have heard from me, in faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Keep the good deposit through the Holy Spirit that dwells in us.
You know that all of Asia departed from me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes.
The Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus because many times he revived me and was not ashamed of my chains.
Rather, when he was in Rome, he sought me out solicitously and found me.
May the Lord grant you to find mercy from the Lord on that day. How much he helped us in Ephesus you know very well.