I solemnly entrust you, in the presence of God and of Jesus Christ, who is to judge the living and the dead, by their manifestation and by their kingdom:
Preach the word; insist on time and out of time; reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers according to their own desires;
and they will turn their ears away from the truth, and will turn to myths.
But you, be sober in all things, suffer hardships, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.
For I am ready to be poured out as a drink offering, and the time for my departure has come.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
In the future the crown of justice is reserved for me that the Lord, the just Judge, will deliver to me on that day; and not only me, but also all who love his coming.
Try to come see me soon,
for Demas has abandoned me, having loved this present world, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescente went to Galacia and Tito to Dalmatia.
Only Lucas is with me. Take Marcos and bring him with you, because he is useful to me for the ministry.
But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
When you come, bring the cloak I left at Troas with Carpus, and the books, especially the scrolls.
Alejandro, the coppersmith, hurt me a lot; the Lord will repay you according to your deeds.
Take care of him too, for he vigorously opposes our teaching.
In my first defense, no one was by my side, but everyone abandoned me; that are not taken into account.
But the Lord was with me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation of the message would be fully fulfilled and that all the Gentiles would hear. And I was released from the lion's mouth.
The Lord will deliver me from all evil deeds and bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. To Him be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Say hi to Prisca and Aquila, and to Onesiphorus' house.
Erastus stayed at Corinth, but I left Trophimus ill at Miletus.
Try to come before winter. Eubulo greets you, also Pudente, Lino, Claudia and all the brothers.
The Lord be with your spirit. May the grace be with you.
