Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus,
Timothy, beloved son: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, that I constantly remember you in my prayers night and day;
wanting to see you, remembering your tears, to fill me with joy;
bringing to mind the unfeigned faith in you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Loida and your mother Eunice; and I'm sure in you too.
Therefore I advise you to fan the fire of the gift of God that is in you by the imposition of my hands.
Because God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, love, and self-control.
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner, but participate in the afflictions for the gospel according to the power of God,
who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his purpose and his grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time,
but now it has been manifested by the appearance of our Savior Jesus Christ, who removed death, and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
of which I was made a preacher, and an apostle and teacher of the Gentiles.
Therefore I also suffer from this; But I am not ashamed, because I know who I have believed, and I am sure that it is powerful to keep my deposit for that day.
Retain the form of the sound words that you heard from me, in the faith and love that is in Christ Jesus.
Keep that good deposit by the Holy Spirit that dwells in us.
You already know this, that all those who are in Asia have abandoned me, among whom are Figelo and Hermogenes.
Grant the Lord mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because many times he brought me relief, and he was not ashamed of my chains,
but when he was in Rome, he looked for me solicitously and found me.
May the Lord grant you mercy near the Lord on that day. And how much it helped us in Ephesus, you know better.