So you, my son, strive in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
What you have heard from me before many witnesses, this instructs faithful men who are suitable to teach others as well.
You therefore bear afflictions as a faithful soldier of Jesus Christ.
No one who is a militant becomes entangled in the affairs of life, in order to please the one who took him to be a soldier.
And the one who competes is not crowned if he does not compete legitimately.
The industrious farmer must be the first to receive the fruits.
Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in everything.
Remember Jesus Christ, descendant of David, risen from the dead, according to my gospel,
in which I suffer afflictions, even prisons as an evildoer; but the word of God is not caught.
Therefore, I bear everything for the love of the elect, so that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
Faithful word is this: If we have died with him, we will also live with him;
if we persevere, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he will also deny us;
if we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, because he cannot deny himself.
Remind them of this, exhorting them before the Lord not to quarrel over words, which is of no use, but destroys the listeners.
Try diligently to present yourself before God approved, as a worker who does not have to be ashamed, who expounds the word of truth well.
But avoid profane and vain talk, because they will lead more and more to impiety.
And their word will eat up like gangrene; among them are Hymenaeus and Filetus,
who have strayed from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and upset the faith of some.
But the foundation of God is firm, bearing this seal: The Lord knows those who are his; and: Let all who call on the name of Christ depart from iniquity.
But in a big house, there are not only utensils of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay; some for honorable use, and others for dishonorable use.
So if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be an instrument for honor, sanctified, and useful to the Lord, and prepared for every good work.
Also flee from youthful passions and follow justice, faith, love and peace, with those who invoke the Lord with a pure heart.
But dismiss foolish and pointless questions, knowing that they breed strife.
Because the Lord's servant should not be contentious, but kind towards everyone, capable of teaching, suffering;
may he meekly correct those who oppose, in case God may grant them to repent to know the truth,
and get rid of the devil's snare, in which they are held captive at his will.