Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life in Christ Jesus,
Timothy, beloved son: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, that without ceasing, night and day, I remember you in my prayers,
wanting to see you, remembering your tears, to fill me with joy.
Because I keep in mind the sincere faith that is in you, which lived first in your grandmother Loida and in your mother Eunice, and I am sure in you too.
Therefore I remind you to fan the fire of the gift of God that is in you by the imposition of my hands.
Because God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, love and self-control.
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner, but participate with me in the afflictions for the gospel, according to the power of God,
who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his purpose and according to the grace that was given to us in Christ Jesus from eternity,
and which has now been manifested by the appearance of our Savior Jesus Christ, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
for which I was made a preacher, an apostle and a teacher.
Therefore I also suffer these things, but I am not ashamed; Because I know who I have believed in, and I am convinced that it is powerful to keep my deposit until that day.
Retain the standard of the sound words you have heard from me, in faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Guard, through the Holy Spirit that dwells in us, the treasure that has been entrusted to you.
You already know this, that all those in Asia have turned their backs on me, among them Figelo and Hermogenes.
Grant the Lord mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because many times he gave me refreshment and was not ashamed of my chains,
rather, when he was in Rome, he sought me eagerly and found me;
May the Lord grant you to find mercy from the Lord on that day. In addition, the services he provided at Ephesus, you know better.
