I require you before God and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead both by their manifestation and by their kingdom:
Preach the word; be ready on time and out of time; He convinces, rebukes and exhorts with all patience and teaching.
For the time will come when they will not bear sound doctrine; rather, having itching to hear, they will amass for themselves teachers according to their own passions
And, as they turn their ears away from the truth, they will turn to fables.
But you, be sober in everything, bear afflictions, do the work of an evangelist; fulfill your ministry.
Because I am about to be offered as a sacrifice, and the time for my departure has come.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race; I have kept the faith.
For the rest, the crown of justice is reserved for me, which the Lord, the just Judge, will give me on that day. And not only to me but also to all those who have loved his coming.
Try to come see me soon
because Demas has forsaken me, having loved the present world, and went to Thessalonica. Crescente went to Galacia, and Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Lucas is with me. Take Marcos and bring him with you because he is useful to me for the ministry.
I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
Bring, when you come, the cloak that I left at Troas at Carpus' house, and the scrolls; especially the scrolls.
Alexander the blacksmith has caused me many ills. The Lord will pay you according to your deeds.
Beware of him too, because he has largely resisted our words.
In my first defense no one was on my side. Rather, they all forsaken me. Ignore them.
But the Lord was with me and gave me strength so that, through me, the preaching would be fulfilled, and that all the Gentiles would listen. And I was released from the lion's mouth.
The Lord will deliver me from all evil deeds and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Say hello to Priscilla and Aquilas, and Onesiphorus' house.
Erastus stayed at Corinth, and I left Trophimus ill at Miletus.
Try to come before winter. Eubulo, Pudente, Lino, Claudia and all the brothers greet you.
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you [a].