I solemnly charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is to judge the living and the dead in their manifestation and in his kingdom,
that you preach the word, that you urge in time and out of time; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all patience and doctrine.
For the time will come when they will not bear sound doctrine; but, having itching to hear, teachers will crowd themselves according to their own lusts,
and they will turn away their ears from the truth and turn to fables.
But be prudent in everything, bear afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.
Because I am already about to be offered as a sacrifice, and the time of my departure is near.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
For the rest, the crown of justice is reserved for me, which the Lord, the just judge, will give me on that day; and not only me, but also all who love his coming.
Try to come see me soon,
because Demas has forsaken me, loving this world, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescente went to Galacia, and Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Lucas is with me. Take Marcos and bring him with you, because he is useful to me for the ministry.
Tychicus I sent to Ephesus.
Bring, when you come, the cloak that I left at Troas at Carpus' house, and the books, mostly the parchments.
Alejandro, the coppersmith, has caused me many ills; the Lord will pay you according to your deeds.
Take care of him too, for he has largely resisted our words.
In my first defense, none was on my side, but they all abandoned me; not be taken into account.
But the Lord was at my side and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching would be fulfilled, and that all the Gentiles would hear; and thus I was delivered from the lion's mouth.
And the Lord will deliver me from all evil deeds, and will preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Say hi to Prisca and Aquila, and to Onesiphorus' house.
Erastus stayed at Corinth; and I left Trophimus in Miletus sick.
Try to come before winter. Eubulo greets you, and Pudente, and Lino, and Claudia and all the brothers.
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. May the grace be with you. Amen.