Political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples
The Organization of American States (OAS) ensures that the rights of indigenous peoples constitute an indispensable element for the present and future of humanity. The preservation of indigenous peoples contributes to the development, plurality and cultural diversity of our societies.
The American Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples recognizes that indigenous peoples have suffered historical injustices as a result, among other things, of colonization and having been dispossessed of their lands, territories and resources, which has impeded their development according to their own interests and needs.
Therefore, it is essential to respect and promote the rights that are specific to them, including their political rights, which are reflected in the political, economic and social structures of their culture; their spiritual traditions; its history and philosophy.
From this recognition derive the rights of indigenous peoples to participate in decision-making that affects their rights and environment, either directly or through representatives chosen in accordance with the institutions, norms, procedures or traditions recognized by them. .
However, the political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples and communities are as follows.
Right to difference
It is the recognition of their different forms of social organization, customs, languages, beliefs and traditions. When differentiated peoples coexist in a country, respect for its various forms of political, economic, legal and social organization is necessary.
Right to non-discrimination
It is a human right that requires equal and dignified treatment towards indigenous peoples and communities, where it is prohibited to rely on their language, clothing, social or economic condition to give them a treatment that excludes them or deprives them of their rights, either in the individual or collective scope.
Right to self-determination
It is the power that indigenous peoples and communities have to govern themselves, which means:
To be able to live under its forms of social, economic, political and cultural organization.
Apply its regulatory systems for the resolution of conflicts and the appointment of its authorities.
Establish priorities in the development programs of their communities and, where appropriate, take responsibility for them.
Preserve and enrich their culture and identity.
To choose representatives before the town councils in the municipalities with indigenous population.
Right to self-enrollment
It is a declaration of will of people or communities that, having a cultural, historical, political, linguistic or other link, decide to identify themselves as members of an indigenous people; its recognition does not depend on any external authority or institution, nor does it require more proof than its word.