Access of indigenous women and men to justice
Access to justice is the foundation for the effective exercise and protection of all the other human rights that people enjoy. It implies the possibility of accessing the defense of a right before a competent court. To be effective requires equal treatment before the law and non-discrimination. Likewise, the judges must take into account the cultural, economic and social differences of the women and men who are members of the indigenous peoples and communities and, in particular, their situation of vulnerability due to conditions of gender, race, poverty and exclusion, eliminating the obstacles that prevent them from accessing justice.
Right to consultation
It refers to the State's obligation to consult the opinion of indigenous peoples regarding all those decisions that involve their interest, be it in their political, social, economic and cultural aspects. The consultation is compulsory on any law or measure that may affect them directly or indirectly, from before it is approved, so that, in a prior and informed manner, they express their consent.
Consultations must be carried out through the representative institutions of the peoples, which in the case of Mexico is usually the general community assembly.
Language rights
To guarantee full access to justice for indigenous communities, as well as to preserve and enrich their languages, the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch (tepjf) determined that, during a trial, the judge must appoint an interpreter and carry out the translations corresponding to each stage, when justified.
For example, in 2014 and 2015, the tepjf requested the support of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​(Inali) to translate and interpret summaries of some sentences in the indigenous language (s) spoken in the communities. involved in the trial, so that both the Spanish version and the indigenous language versions could be broadcast, primarily by loudspeaker and through the mechanisms best known to the community that are commonly used to transmit information or messages of interest.