Trial for the protection of the citizen's political-electoral rights
Once the political-electoral rights of the members of the indigenous peoples and communities have been defined, there is a mechanism that guarantees the protection of such rights, as described below.
The means of challenge by which the fulfillment of indigenous rights can be demanded is citizen judgment.
It is a legal means to challenge acts issued by the authorities, when political-electoral rights or any other right related to political participation is affected.
As an example, the rights that can be protected in this means of defense, in the case of an election where political parties participate, could be, among others, the following:
Vote. This right may be affected when it is considered that some authority issued an act that prevents choosing or participating in the election of the people who will be the new authorities.
Be voted. The affectation to this right could appear when some authority or political party emitted an act that prevents participation as an applicant, candidate or candidate for any representative position.
Freedom of association. There will be an affectation to this right when a political party or political group prevents participating or being part of them.
Vote in popular consultations. When there are issues in which citizens are consulted, they have the right to participate in it and cast their vote.
Indigenous communities and their members can go to electoral justice to protect their rights in various situations, including when their rights to:
The consultation. State authorities should consult indigenous peoples and communities when they are in charge of making a decision, whether administrative or legislative, the effects of which directly affect the particular way of life of indigenous peoples. Failure to conduct a consultation or that it does not meet the minimum standards can be challenged before the electoral authority.
Vote and be voted. Denying the right to vote or to be voted for women, the elderly or the elderly are violations of their rights that can be challenged. Likewise, lawsuits can be filed when there are irregularities in the holding of the assembly, when the tequio is not respected, among other cases.
Choose their authorities under internal regulatory systems. The self-determination of indigenous peoples and communities includes the possibility of choosing the system under which they intend to elect their authorities. Therefore, a refusal of the authority to the request of an indigenous community to migrate can be challenged.
These are just a few examples that can impede political participation; But citizen judgment is also useful to protect any other right when the development of an election is affected, such as freedom of expression or the right to petition.
When a case such as those mentioned above is presented, a citizen trial claim can be prepared and filed. For this, there are four days, which will begin counting the day after the authority's act was known.
The application must be signed by the members of the community or their legal representative and must be submitted directly to the authority that issued this act. For example, if the act was issued by the city council, the demand must be filed with the official party of said authority.
It is very important that the lawsuit meets these requirements, because otherwise the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch may dismiss it, which means that it will not analyze whether or not the act violates rights.
In the case of indigenous communities, in the citizen trial the Court must "fill" any deficiency that the complaint has and specify the act that affected their rights, that is, that the authority has the obligation to correct, complete or integrate arguments that have been presented defectively, with the sole limitation that the cause of request can be clearly appreciated when studying the facts described in the brief presented.
The writing can be simple, even handmade, and the most important thing is that the facts that are damaging the political-electoral rights of people belonging to an indigenous community be specified. It can be in relation to an election under the political party system or in cases related to the appointment of community authorities under their own regulatory system.