What should communities or their members do if they consider that their political-electoral rights are not respected?
When any electoral authority, political party or other government authority violates their electoral-political rights, the indigenous community, any of its members or their representatives must:
First. Responsible electoral authority
Go to the responsible electoral authority, for example: table of debates, municipal presidency, municipal electoral council, state electoral institute, among others, to request respect for their political-electoral rights.
Express in writing the rights violated and indicate what they want the authority to resolve. It is not necessary to go to a lawyer.
In your case, mention your name and the name of the person who represents you legally.
Indicate the address where they can be notified of the resolution.
It is the obligation of the electoral authorities who are aware of indigenous matters, that their sentences be communicated to the members of indigenous communities and peoples, in accordance with the specific conditions of each place, so that they are in a position to have an adequate defense, with respect to of the acts that may cause them harm.
It is sufficient that you identify yourself as indigenous for the authority to take into account that there is a cultural, historical, political, linguistic or other link with your community.
Mention the authority that violates your rights.
Point out the facts, grievances and the articles allegedly violated.
The Superior Chamber has determined that, in the case of indigenous communities and peoples, it is the obligation of the electoral authority to supply not only the deficiency of the reasons for grievances, but also their total absence and to specify the act that really affects.
Offer tests that help verify what is requested.
Sign your claim or, where appropriate, put your fingerprint.
Second. Local or state electoral court
If the electoral administrative authority does not decide in favor of the community or its members, the next step is to go to the state electoral court, which will review the determinations of the institute or the communal authority. For this, the following must be met:
Submit a demand brief to the electoral authority that issued the resolution or act that it considers violates your indigenous rights.
The demand brief must be submitted within the period established by local law, which is generally within four days from the day after the act or resolution is known.
The authority or the political party that receives a demand that is presented against its own acts or resolutions must give notice to the institute or the court, specifying: person who is demanding, act or contested sentence, exact date and time of its reception.
Third. Regional Chamber of the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
When the resolution of the state electoral court is not favorable to the community, you can go to the Regional Chamber to promote a trial or file an appeal, as the case may be, following the same steps that have been previously mentioned.
Fourth. Superior Chamber of the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
As previously stated, when political-electoral rights are affected, the legal means to challenge acts issued by the authorities is the trial for the protection of the citizen's political-electoral rights (JDC), which will be heard by the Electoral Tribunal of the Judicial Power of the Federation through one of its Regional Chambers.
However, there are particular cases in which, when some assumptions are updated, the Superior Chamber may exercise reinforced judicial protection and thus attend to technical obstacles and geographic, social and cultural circumstances that may generate a circumstance of legal discrimination among the indigenous population, such as are the distance and the means of communication of the population where the actor's domicile is located, in relation to the place where the authority's domicile is located, before which the appeal is filed, or some other situation that limits real access and effective to the jurisdiction of the State.
Likewise, in cases of urgency and if some requirements are met, the decisions of the state electoral institute can be sued directly before the Regional Chambers or the Superior Chamber, "jumping" to the electoral courts of the states (per saltum), such and as it happened in the following case.
On the other hand, the Superior Chamber will exclusively hear the appeal for reconsideration (rec) against the decision of the Regional Chambers when the non-application of an electoral law has been determined as it is considered contrary to the Constitution. This resource is known as reconsideration.