Electoral organizations that intervene in the promotion and protection of the political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples and communities
National Electoral Institute
The organization of the elections is in charge of electoral authorities both at the federal and state levels, which are obliged to collaborate in the development of this task. The federal authorities in the matter are responsible for organizing, validating and qualifying the election of the President of the United Mexican States, as well as the federal senators and deputies that make up the Congress of the Union. The National Electoral Institute (INE) is the body in charge of organizing the federal elections. The INE also organizes, in coordination with the electoral institutes of the federal entities, the local elections in the states of the republic and Mexico City.
Specialized Prosecutor for the Attention of Electoral Crimes
The Specialized Prosecutor for the Attention of Electoral Crimes (Fepade) is an organ of the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic that prevents, investigates and sanctions federal electoral crimes.
Electoral crimes are acts that violate the principles of universal, free, secret, personal and non-transferable voting, and that affect the organization of elections and the fairness of this process.
In the states and Mexico City, there are organs within the local prosecutors' offices that must investigate electoral crimes in local elections.
Electoral crimes are, among others:
Vote more than once in the same election.
Hinder the voting or its count.
Vote or pretend to vote with a false voter registration card or that of another person.
Collect, at any time, citizens' voting credentials.
Put pressure on people when they are in the polls to vote for a certain candidate on Election Day.
Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
The Electoral Tribunal, through its various Regional Chambers or the Superior Chamber, guarantees the political-electoral rights of all Mexicans, as stated throughout this manual.
Among the constituent bodies of the Tribunal is the Electoral Public Defender for Indigenous Peoples and Communities, in charge of providing free electoral defense and advisory services in favor of indigenous peoples and communities, as well as the people who comprise them.