Birds fly in the sky.
Flowers are pretty.
There is a plate of beans to eat.
The grasshopper jumps away.
Banana trees are on the irrigated land.
We drink water daily.
The cat eats little mice and rats.
It is a narrow road, but it reaches a big city.
Every morning the women throw tortillas.
She has long hair.
He is a very small boy.
The rooster likes to crow
Here comes another person.
Last year and the year before last we went to Mexico.
It is a good house; the wind does not enter.
Poor us if we had no hands!
The candle lights us up.
They say that if we have a good head we will learn soon.
There's the coin that he dropped, he says.
His dad already gave him permission; you can go where you want to go.
The bird sings very beautifully.
The turkeys are big. They have a lot of meat.
The rabbit runs fast.
There are squirrels in the watering ground.
People make palm hats.
The goats walk on the hill every day.
We pinch the ears, and then we carry them to the house.
When the ears are already in the house, then we shelled them.
Green beans are tasty and we eat them
Sometimes there is a rainbow in the sky.
If it rained and there was a good bean harvest, we are happy.
You have to be careful when you catch the prickly pear because it has spines.
Chickens lay eggs
It is not difficult to climb in a mogote, because it is not high.
The honey that bees make is sweet.
When they celebrate we eat goat meat.
The sun shines
Here's a dime that people used to use before.
The chick comes out of the shell, and then it starts to chirp.
An orphan is one who has neither mother nor father.
The water in the pot is boiling.
If there are no jobs to do, then the children will play.
We shear the sheep.
If we injure our knee, then we seek medicine to heal ourselves.
The hare is bigger than the rabbit.
If the nose sticks, it hurts a lot.
The fish go through the waters of the sea.
When it flashes, it thunders too.
There is a bird's nest in the tree.
We write on paper for people to read.
Some chickens do not have feathers on their necks.
We like to sit in the shade of large trees.
Can you eat ten mangoes?
We add onion to the beans that are cooking.
If there are no clouds, it cannot rain.
If it rains, then the cornfield plants will revive.
The comal needs to be heated, so that the tortillas can be cooked.
Foxes come at night and grab chickens.
The blankets are made of spun wool.
There is a ravine called Barranca de Estaca.
