Swallows say they clear the clouds.
Swallows say they clear the clouds.
They say that the swallows fly a lot and cut the clouds, so that it no longer rains.
The swallow is the animal that gathers the clouds.
The swift clears the clouds.
They say that when an owl screams and says "juu juu", it is that a person who lives near where it screamed is going to die.
They say that if the owl cries near the house, one of us will die or be hit by a very serious illness.
They say that if the owl screams near a person's house, something bad will happen to it.
When the owl squeals, it warns that something bad is going to happen.
When the night hawk screams, they say it is going to rain.
They say that in October there are woodpeckers that call the ice.
They say that the hawk shouts "quili quili quili" and calls the ice.
The cojolite is a witch animal; warns when an evil comes.
They say that the lovebird screams "Conce" (Concepción).
If the venturía turns its back on us, then they say it will not go well for us.
If the ventur turns its back on us, we know it will go badly for us on the day, they say.
If the venturilla is in front of us, they say that we will have good luck.
At dawn the venturilla says: "Let the old animal wake up!".
When the cenzontle sings, they say it is calling the rain.
They say that the cuique is a witch animal because when it screams, people suffer some evil.
They say that the cuique hates the world when it screams.
They say that the cuique calls the rain.
If a woman passes over a viper, the animal will become numb.
They say that one night a boy was crying and the woman's husband got up and saw that a viper was suckling and that the baby had its tail in its mouth and sucked it, but nothing came out.
Drink our blood.
They say that the praying mantis is not good because it enters the woman and casts her calf inside her,
and it is seen that she is pregnant, but not that but that animal is inside her.
They say that the crickets call the rain.
If someone looks at or points a finger at a small pumpkin, it stops growing and then rots.
If we eat beans on the day of planting,
Many cuitlacoches will come out, they say.
You should not go over the plow because it is not good!
They say that if the dogs howl, people are going to get sick, or suffer misfortune.
They say the dog howls, and it's not right because someone is going to die.
If we catch the tail of a cat, then at night it will bring a viper to where we are lying.
They say that if the children hold the cat, they will get hunchbacked fast.
They say that if someone puts a bucket of water where the hen is brooding her eggs, the chicks will not come out well, but the eggs will have pure water inside.
I have a squatter from the rain and it makes me very sleepy.
There are people who become lightning strikes and when it rains they hit their enemies.
The rain showered us.
The sky has been covered with small clouds, and one of these days hail will fall.
They say that when the cloud of cold falls on the hill, it will be very cold at night.
People swept away by the current do not rest; It comes and goes in the river where the current carried it away.
God shook the world.
rainbow
If we point our finger at the rainbow, the finger rots.
If we pass near where the rainbow is, it swallows us.
You should not go near the place where the rainbow is, because it can swallow you.
If you cross the rainbow where the rain comes from, the water doesn't come here anymore, they say.
swirl
A whirlpool passed where he was going,
and he wrapped it up, and he got very sick because a demon hit him, they say.
It will be very hot because the Sun has a halo around it.
They say that a lot of air will run because the Sun has a halo around it.
When the moon is tilted, it will rain, they say.
The Moon is completely red because it carries heat, and it will be hot in the coming days.
When the new moon comes, any pain increases.
When there is a solar eclipse, pregnant women do not go outside because the Sun eats the creature's fingers and is not born healthy.
droppings from the stars
At night we see the stars fall,
but they say that it is not the stars themselves, but their excrement.
Droppings fell from the stars.
Every Friday in Lent is a holy day.
goblin of the mount
They say that at night the ghosts come out, and at noon the bandoliers come out.
He went to the mountain and fell asleep,
and when he woke up
a woman who looked very pretty was standing there,
but it was a shoulder bag.
A brigand cheated on the boy, who lost his mind and suffered from amnesia.
A bandit hid the goat and he disappeared.
If you return to your house, do not sleep with your wife at all because she will become a bandolier.
The elves
They say that the goblins hide the lambs for two or three days, and then they take them out.
They ask the earth for permission to light a fire,
and they throw brandy on the ground
and they also take it,
and then they put their pots on.
A person who finishes his house opens it
and toss the goblin portion at the base of all the forks.
People of yesteryear heated the temazcal so that newly-born women could bathe.
They say that wells and temazcales are very dangerous places.
They say that the temazcales are dangerous, and if a person stones them, they will get sick.
If a woman eats a banana on the day she has children, she will have twins.
You should not eat lovebird meat because if you eat it, you will not have milk for your children.
A woman who is giving birth
and he is in a lot of pain,
take zoapatle
and then the baby is born.
A newly born woman,
if you take chicken broth,
then he regains his strength.
If a newly born woman takes atole of dough,
the womb will be infected.
She cannot eat yellow mole because her baby was born and this food is infectious.
Your baby was delivered by caesarean section and you cannot eat anything until you have closed your wound.
The baby's knee dropped because they moved him a lot.
If the baby's knee falls off, he will become ill.
If a baby's nap falls, we must help him to make up.
If the hair is not cut from the forehead to the children, they say that they will become cross-eyed.
If you bend down to drink water from a well, the spirit of the well will slap you, and you will get sick, say the great ladies.
She was hot and went to fetch her water, and the river steam caught up with her and she got sick.
When it rains,
steam comes out of the ground,
and if the children step on where the steam comes out,
they say they get sick.
When children stretch, they say white spots appear on their faces.
The devil bit me very ugly.
Blood accumulates inside the bone and that is why it hurts.
He felt like an egg, and they say a yellow bean came out of his mouth.
If the baby's knee falls off, he will become ill.
His testicles fell out because he lifted very heavy things.
If we chew ocote resin, they say that the teeth become firm.
Do not walk much in the sun because they will soon have lice.
If they don't put on their girdles when they do heavy lifting, their bellies and backs start to hurt.
They say that you have to give tortilla with holy grass to the dogs so they don't get angry.
If we wash our hands with cold water after grinding beans,
blood pools on the hands.
If we bathe in cold water,
the blood thickens.
But if we bathe with pure hot water,
blood gets very thin
and then it comes out a lot through the nose.
The curandero takes the person's hand and says what illness they are suffering from.
He was sick, and he looked for a fortune teller to find out who had cursed him.
She reads the deck
to find out what the child is suffering from.
The cuajilote is medicinal; We chew it when we have angina.
The herb of the mule is a medicine.
When we have a stomach ache, we boil three twigs, take and make up our stomach.
Aloe is medicinal
and we can take it when we have kidneys.
Immortelle flower is medicinal; When our eyes burn, we squeeze it and pour the juice into our eyes.
They say that if children have worms,
We must give them rue tea to be thrown.
The women put the soot that hangs from the ceiling into the wounds so that they heal faster.
When we have cloths on our faces, we rub the veins of the armpits, chest and shoulders.
When your back hurts, look for turpentine, and put it with a rag where it hurts, and it will disappear.
"He received treatment, and cannot eat everything.
"
The boy's mother prohibited him from eating chili because he was ill.
If we have been hurt anywhere, we should not eat pork because it is infectious.
The palm is infectious.
He is calling her soul because she is sick.
The sorcerer rubs an egg on the body of a sick person.
He cleanses the sick man with medicinal plants.
He cleanses the sick man with medicinal plants.
He cleaned it with herbs.
The devil hit her and she's sick, and she's going to be cured with strong medicine.
They say that the boy fell into the river, and began to get sick, and his parents went to collect his horror, and then he composed himself.
I was bullied by a bull
and it scared me a lot,
and she collected my horror
and they threw a chicken for the goblin portion.
Here I brought you your portions; all of you gather together, and eat; and release my relative to come back with me.
They say that on full moon nights the naguals become animals.
They say there were two men who became coyotes at midnight.
There are naguals who take advantage of the rain
and they become lightning bolts to go kill their enemies.
People are afraid of witches, because if they spit on you, they will get sick, they say.
The warlock makes a figure, which he uses to curse people.
When they get very angry with another person, they buy candles and curse him.
Put the plate of food in the middle of the entrance, and step over it when leaving and entering.
People who are swept away by the current do not rest; It comes and goes in the river where the current carried it away.
They say that people who fall into a ravine and die, their soul just stays there
They are not saved, but are left suffering.
He died, and they say that his soul is imprisoned because he did not behave well in this world.
on November 2 the souls return to the house where they died
At the Todos Santos party, among the family we give away tamales and fruit because they say that the souls of the deceased arrive and they also eat them.
So we go to leave some tortillas at our relatives' house, and they give us fruit in turn.
If a person eats a lot, his belly inflates and he explodes.
They say that tantrums get the smell of chili when it is toasted, and they cough and sneeze.
They say he craved an egg, and a yellow pimple came out of his mouth.
If we eat the fruit of the canelilla, they say that we are going to be very poor.
It has two crowns and they say it will be very difficult.
You will have a lot of money because you have moles on your face and neck, they say.
They say that if we study a lot, we are going to be hairless.
They say our brains melt and mucus runs down our noses.
There is a rooster on my neck.
Animals are climbing inside your foot.
You sneeze and people say your child is reminding you.
Who is remembering you?
They accepted the favor of the dream
They say that people will become very poor if they slit their palm at night.
They say that cat poop is the chocolate of the catrin.
He loaded the years on her.
We will hug the saint and lie down, and if the tremor comes, we will die with her, people said.
They say that girls should not play with acorns because when they add their nixtamal, the dough is chewy.
You must be a good person.
You must be a good person. When you are eating, and someone arrives, do not hide the food, but share with them, even if it is little.
At lunchtime we always have to set aside a bit of the stew because another person may suddenly arrive.
When we have, we must lend because in the future we will need these people to help us.
We must get up early to face our problems well.
The person who dedicates himself to working his land well will always have food
People who rush to work go a long way.
There is no other day like today to sow
The day is over, but the work is not over yet.
It does not. Another day will come tomorrow.
Tomorrow will come too.
People who obey their parents will do well.
Honor your mother and father who always teach you the good.
You must be good; don't fall in love with your relative.
Fighting people harm themselves, and they won't live long.
If we are good people, we will have a long life.
One does not finish realizing, and one dies.
In problems our eyes open.
One must think how to live in the future.
What we say we are going to do, we must do later.
It is easy to speak, but it does cost.
We must eat well now that we are in good health.
We should only do what we are going to eat today.
You are a lion ant face.
You are a ghost head.
You are an animal.
You look like a viper because you stick your tongue out.
You eat like a pig.
It looks like a mouse ate your tongue that you can't speak.
Shut up, or I'm going to put bitter grass in your mouth.
We are afraid the coyote will come and eat you.
Don't talk to strangers because if you do, they will take you.
Don't you have ears?
How many ears do you have that you don't understand?
You walk slowly like a duck.
Whether or not they are going to be scolded,
Just listen!
"You dishonor us"
dads tell a disobedient son.
Who are you to think like that?
Do not be lazy or your habit will stick and you will be like this all your life!
Don't follow your bad example
Don't hang out with that lady, or her bad example will stick with you
In the future he will suffer, and he will know how things are.
She has her hands on her gate; does not grip the palm.
The godparents and the parents of both [boyfriends]
They give them advice saying that they should have respect and that they should take care of each other.
Don't despise each other!
Get married and get along and live in peace forever!
Receive a beautiful, good and precious thing
and go hear the mass
and take care of each other.
The bride and groom were linked.
May they always be united!
Let them stay together forever!
The drunk said to his wife,
"Do you want me to hit you?"
Let him eat his fist!
Confess all the sins you did, to see if God receives you because you are suffering a lot.
Don't scare me away; on the contrary, ask us to be well here.
He is gone forever.
He died and already went to the hill.
In the future we will receive the consequences of what we are doing
He received what he deserved.
He received what he deserved.
He looked for his own problems.
Now he found his lesson
She herself caused her own death
It is sweeter than your honey.
It doesn't happen because it's still sweet.
Talk about lips, not heart.
What does your heart say?
What does your rotten heart say?
Thank God we woke up well another day
This is life.
How difficult is it to live in this world!
Don't worry because we want work.
How good you fell!
It was established because it already has three sons.
