ANIMALS
In Mexico City there are many caged animals.
These animals have been brought from other countries so that people can get to know them.
This division of the book shows us some of the animals found in the Chapultepec Zoo.
The bear's body is very large and its tail is very short.
Her nails are long
and with them you can dig the earth.
His hair is thick
black or brown.
The little bears that live in cold land
the big yellowish
The bear likes to play.
Can swim
and climb the trees.
Eat honey, fruit, tree roots, grass, and mice.
In the winter the bear sleeps and eats nothing
and he doesn't eat again until he wakes up in the spring.
In the winter the hatchlings stop.
Tiger
The tiger is the biggest cat there is.
You can beat the lion.
Lives in Africa and India.
Your skin is yellow listed
and lives in the forest.
One beef is finished in five days.
The tiger is very brave and very smart.
The children remain with their mother until they are three years old.
She teaches them how to get their food.
Caribu
The deer that lives where it is very cold
is very large
It is called a caribou.
It can work like the horse.
He does not feel cold because his hair is very thick.
His legs are long and so he does not get into the snow but walks over it. When there is snow, the caribou digs for the grasses that grow below. Tendons are used as thread.
The male has very large horns.
People can eat caribou meat
make clothes with the skin
drink milk.
Caribou is native to Canada.
Wolf
The wolf lives in France, Italy, Spain, the Balkans, Russia, Asia, Canada, the United States, Alaska, and Mexico.
He is like a big dog, but he is very brave and very clever.
The male, the female and their children walk together
and they can kill a beef.
They travel long distances
to look for their food.
The wolf eats rabbits, mice, and dead animals.
You can also catch fish where the water is not very deep.
The wolf is afraid of man and when it is scared it abandons its cubs.
If one of them is injured or dies, the others eat it.
The wolf howls at night.
Call
The llama lives in the mountains of South America.
His hair is white, black, dark brown or colored, and very thick
It is used to make cloth and ropes.
The male is used as a beast of burden because he can walk on difficult trails where other animals cannot pass. If his load is very heavy, he lies down and does not walk.
When he gets angry, he mixes his food with saliva and spits it out at the man who made him angry.
Kangaroo
The kangaroo lives in Australia.
The kangaroo's hands are very short but the legs are long and the tail is very thick.
Sometimes it sits on its tail and legs.
The kangaroo can jump well.
When he walks, he can jump like three meters, but when he runs, he can jump like six meters.
The kangaroo can run faster than the dog.
The head of the kangaroo is like that of a rabbit. His ears are very long.
When their young are born, they are very small and look like worms.
They get into the female's bag and stay there until they are big.
The kangaroo eats grass.
Camel
The camel lives in Africa, Asia and China
where the climate is very dry.
It can work like four days without eating or drinking.
He keeps the butter on his back.
There are camels that have two humps on their backs. Others have only one.
You can close your noses so the sand doesn't get in when it's windy.
The camel kneels when they are going to carry it.
It can carry about 275 kilos of cargo.
The camel is very silly, because it eats any grass,
and he doesn't know if they can poison him.
Fabrics and brushes are made from his hair.
People drink their milk and eat their meat.
Chimpanzee
The chimpanzee lives in Africa.
It is a monkey similar to man.
He is tall, his hands are long, and he has no tail.
(The chimpanzee) lives above the trees
where it makes its nest to sleep.
It can walk on the ground.
When he walks, he does it with his hands and feet.
Chimpanzee is very shy and does not harm people
but when he is wounded he is very dangerous.
He is very intelligent and soon learns what he sees.
Eat bananas and other fruits.
Buffalo
The buffalo is like a bull, but bigger. He is very brave.
Its horns are large and it can fight an elephant.
Lives in India, Europe, China, Egypt, Australia, the Philippine Islands, and New Guinea.
He likes to immerse himself in the water for a long time and only sticks his head out.
It eats grass and an old buffalo watches over the herd when it is eating.
The buffalo can be tamed and is used to plow land.
There is a bird that cares for the buffalo, looking for worms on the skin and eating them;
alerts you when an enemy comes.
Lion
The lion lives in Africa and India.
When the male lion is five or seven years old, the mane grows on its neck;
not the female.
The tail is very long and at the tip it has a lock of hair.
Its mouth is so big that it fits a person's head.
The female has two children.
The male and female teach their children to kill to eat.
They live like forty years.
The lion is very lazy and is not afraid of anything
The lion sleeps during the day and hunts the animals it will eat at night.
Hippopotamus
The hippopotamus lives in Africa.
It is very large and its skin is about two inches thick.
Its head, mouth, and teeth are very large.
Although its body is very thick, its legs are small.
Also his ears and eyes are small.
In the day he gets into the water and sleeps there
You can close your noses and ears to keep water out.
but he sticks his nose out from time to time.
"At night he goes out to eat grass."
Leopard
The leopard lives in Africa and Asia.
Is not very big,
but it is just under a meter and a half long.
Its tail is very long.
It is mottled,
making it difficult to see it in the forest.
Her skin is very expensive.
The leopard can climb trees
It can kill deer, calves, pigs, children and sometimes large people.
Zebra
The zebra is like a horse, but it has another color.
It is striped black and white
It has no hair on its tail, only a little on the tip.
Its legs are small like those of the donkey.
It can be used as a horse but is never fully tamed.
People who live where there are zebras eat their meat. With the skin. They make huaraches and bags.
lives in Africa
but now there are very few, because people have killed many.
Rhino
The rhino lives in Africa and Asia.
It is one and a half meters high.
The body of this animal is very thick and heavy
Its skin is very thick and its neck is very folded.
In its snout it has a horn with which it fights and knocks down saplings.
Live where there is a lot of water.
Eat grass and fruit.
Its skin is so thick that bullets do not go through it. To kill them people use bullets of another metal.
The rhino can live about fifty years.
Giraffe
The giraffe lives in Africa where it is very hot.
You don't need to drink a lot of water.
She is very tall and has a very long neck.
His eyes are too oblique to see back and forth,
and so it is difficult to catch it.
Men who want to catch it ride horses and lasso their legs when running.
The giraffe's tongue is about half a meter long and with it it takes the leaves of the trees even if they are very high.
The giraffe does not usually eat grass from the ground.
Elephant
The elephant is the largest land animal there is.
It weighs about 3,200 kilos
and it lacks little to be four meters high.
Its trunk is very long but very strong.
With it he takes the things and puts them in his mouth to eat.
He has two long fangs and with these he fights
Its fangs are very expensive;
can be sold for $ 3,000 each.
Although it cannot see well, the elephant can hear and smell very well.
It can be tamed to work and assemble it.
Live like 120 years and never forget a thing
Although it has been a long time since he was mistreated,
and if he finds the person who did it, he will attack him
Lives in Africa, Asia, India and Burma.
Different animals live in the forests of the Republic of Mexico.
This division of the book shows us some of the animals found in the Republic of Mexico.
Lynx
The lynx lives in Tibet and North America.
It looks like the cat.
Its tail is very small, but its fur is furry, thick and very expensive.
It is very bad and very shy.
When he wants to attack any animal he immediately growls.
The lynx growls when it attacks either a squirrel, sheep, goat, mouse or bird.
Sometimes the lynx hides and when an animal passes near it, it grabs it to eat it.
Jaguar
The jaguar has two names.
Also called a panther.
There is in South America.
Looks like a big cat
and eats the horse, the lamb and the worms of the rotten sticks.
When you chase him, then he attacks.
Skunk
The skunk lives in America.
It is black, but on its back it has two white stripes.
Eat worms, grasshoppers, lobsters, mice, eggs and birds.
You cannot climb trees.
When an enemy attacks him or when he is afraid, he leans on his legs and raises his tail.
If the animal does not move away, it throws a liquid that stinks very ugly
and that reaches up to about three meters away.
Opossum
The opossum lives in the Americas.
In Mexico it is more well known as tlacuache.
On the body it has thick, long dark gray hair, but not on the tail.
It is about 80 centimeters long, including the tail.
It looks like a large rat, but it has a longer snout than this one.
Lives in the trees,
and eat chickens, eggs, and fruit.
At night he comes out, but in the day he sleeps in a tree hole or on the ground.
When considered attacked, the deceased pretends and, with his eyes closed and his head hidden between his legs, he appears to be a rigid body.
Even though they are born like fifteen young
many die, and about eight live.
The female has a bag where she keeps her children when they are boys. Two months remain there.
Then they go out and their mother carries them on her back, holding onto her tail.
Cuatrojillo
The cuatrojillo lives anywhere in the world, except in Australia.
The cuatrojillo is about twelve inches long. Its tail is long and hairy.
Eat mice and chickens.
In very cold places, their skin is white and of great value.
Bat
looks like the bird,
It can fly, but it does not lay eggs.
When the young are born, the female, when she flies, carries them on her breast.
The bat sleeps a lot.
He is only awake four hours a night.
Savaha ni ga nuu iyo tɨ.
On the day when he sleeps, he stands with his head down where it is dark.
The bat can be tamed but its bite hurts a lot.
Live anywhere in the world.
Strong arm
There is an anteater, which is also called a strong arm, it is found from Guatemala to South America.
Those that exist in Mexico are very different.
The body of the Mexican anteater is about one and a half meters long.
The muzzle is long and the tail falls.
Sometimes he walks on the ground, but prefers trees.
Eat ants, termites, and sugar cane.
It has no teeth, but its tongue is very long and you can stick it in the anthill to eat it.
Her nails are very large.
He breaks the cane with them and then sucks his honey with his snout.
Deer
The deer lives anywhere.
There are in Asia, Europe, Africa, China, Japan, the Philippine Islands, Mexico, South America, Borneo, Canada and the United States.
There are many types of deer. The one who lives in Mexico is a boy.
The deer is the animal that can run the fastest.
When it is small it does not have horns, but when it grows it comes out, and each year a small accessory comes out.
Badger
The badger lives on hot ground
The female has two to four children.
The one who lives in South America is dark yellow
but he who lives in the United States and Canada has a white muzzle.
The muzzle and tail are long.
It never goes alone; always in a group.
Eat birds, worms, reptiles, bananas, and papaya.
He sleeps at night and searches for his food during the day. The badger can be tamed.
Crocodile
The crocodile that lives in Africa is up to six meters long
but those in the Americas, China, Asia and Australia are smaller.
The crocodile lives in the water and when animals like cattle or horses come to drink, it grabs them by the snout, drags them into the water, and they drown.
Eat the dogs and the people.
He really likes rotten meat.
He also comes out of the water and walks on the sand by the river. There the female lays more or less 60 eggs and leaves them. When the crocodiles are born, they go into the water, and there they breed.
They only go out to find what to eat.
Tuza
The gopher lives anywhere in the world, except in Africa and South America.
Her body is small and her skin is very soft.
Its muzzle is long and thick.
Her hands are big with small fingers.
With his hands and muzzle the gopher scratches the ground.
When you dig under the ground, look for worms or tree roots.
Garbage is poured over it to hide.
Shrew
The shrew is small, like a mouse.
Its muzzle is long, its eyes and legs are small, its beard is long and its teeth are sharp.
There are in the United States, South America and in Europe.
The shrew is always hungry.
In the day and at night he is looking for something to eat under the leaves or roots of the trees.
Eat worms, mice and grass.
He lives in tunnels that he burrows into the ground.
When confronted by an enemy, it emits a stinky odor to drive it away
She is very brave and can kill a mouse even when it is bigger than her.
Raccoon
The raccoon lives in the Americas.
It is small, but its tail is long.
Her hair is black and white.
Its muzzle is long.
On his face he has black hair that makes him look like a mask.
He likes water very much and does not swim very well.
Eat frogs, eggs, vibras, fruit, and ears.
He only comes out at night, and in the daytime he sleeps lying on a tree.
In places where it is very cold, before the cold starts, it is locked in a tree hole.
Even the cousin vera goes for a walk again.
Chipmunk
The squirrel lives in the forest.
It is found on hot and cold ground.
Eat acorns and other fruit from trees.
He also eats pineapple and corn.
There are two kinds of squirrels,
one is gray with a purple chest and the other is black.
Stop two young at the same time. They make their nest above the trees; their children remain there until they are grown up.
The meat of the squirrel is very tasty. People hunt it a lot.
Wild pig
The boar lives in the bush. He does not live alone;
he always walks in groups.
It is black and white.
Its tail is short and its legs are not very long, they look like the legs of pigs.
Stop two to four young at a time. When it rains a lot they come out of the forest and stop on a hill.
The wild boar eats grass and tree roots.
It also digs the ground and looks for worms and sweet potatoes.
Porcupine
The porcupine lives in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas.
Its body is very thick and its tail very short
On his skin are spikes two inches long.
If an animal attacks you, it strikes with its tail
and the thorns break off and enter the body of the enemy.
The porcupine is very silly and walks very slow.
Some climb trees.
In the daytime he goes into the earth or between the stones and sleeps there. At night he goes out to look for his food.
Armadillo
The armadillo lives in the Americas, in places where it is not cold, such as in the States of Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas.
in a shell like a very hard shell, simulating bone.
Its legs are small, but it can run faster than a man.
When it is scared, it becomes a ball and hides inside the shell; so his enemy cannot hurt him.
In the daytime he goes into a hole in the ground or between the stones and sleeps there.
When it is cloudy, or at night, he goes looking for his food.
It eats flies, worms, fruit, ants, snakes, lizards, eggs, small birds, and tree roots.
Seal
The seal lives in Asia, Mexico, and the United States.
He lives in the water but also walks on land.
It has no legs, but hands in a special way
that's why he walks on earth with a lot of work.
Her ears are small and her eyes are large.
Her skin is smooth and very expensive.
Its fat is also expensive.
Eat small fish and other water animals.
