I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living beings saying, as with a voice of thunder: Come.
I looked, and behold, a white horse; and the one who was riding on it had a bow; He was given a crown, and he went out conquering and to conquer.
When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living being say: Come.
Then another horse came out, red; and the one who was riding on it was granted to take away the peace of the earth and that men kill each other; and he was given a great sword.
When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living being say: Come. And I looked, and behold, a black horse; and the one who was riding on it had a scale in hand.
And I heard like a voice in the middle of the four living beings saying: A liter of wheat for a denarius, and three liters of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and the wine.
When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living being say: Come.
And I looked, and behold, a yellowish horse; and the one who was riding on it was called Death; and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a quarter of the earth, to kill with the sword, with hunger, with pestilence, and with the beasts of the earth.
When the Lamb opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God and the testimony they had kept;
and they cried out with a loud voice, saying: How long, O holy and true Lord, will you wait to judge and avenge our blood on those who live on earth?
And each was given a white robe; and they were told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers, who were to be killed as they had been, was also completed.
I saw when the Lamb opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun turned black like sackcloth made of bristle, and the whole moon turned like blood,
and the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as the fig tree drops its green figs when it is shaken by a strong wind.
And the sky disappeared like a scroll that is rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place.
And the kings of the earth, and the great ones, the commanders, the rich, the powerful, and every servant and all free, hid in the caves and between the rocks of the mountains;
and they said to the mountains and the rocks: Fall on us and hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb,
For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can sustain themselves?