And a great sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and a crown of twelve stars on her head;
she was pregnant, and cried out *, in labor and with labor pains.
Then another sign appeared in the sky: behold, a great red dragon that had seven heads and ten horns, and on their heads were seven diadems.
Its tail dragged * a third of the stars from the sky and threw them on the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was to give birth, to devour her son when she gave birth.
And she gave birth to a male child, who is to rule all nations with a rod of iron; and her son was caught up to God and to his throne.
And the woman fled into the desert, where she had * a place prepared by God, to be sustained there, for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Then there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought,
but they could not overcome, nor was there any place found for them in heaven.
And the great dragon was thrown, the ancient serpent called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; He was thrown down to earth and his angels were thrown down with him.
And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying: Now has come salvation, the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ, because the accuser of our brothers, the one who accuses them before our God day and night, it has been thrown.
They overcame him through the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives, even suffering death.
Therefore rejoice, heavens and those who dwell in them. Woe to the land and the sea !, because the devil has descended on you with great fury, knowing that he has little time.
When the dragon saw that it had been thrown to the ground, it chased the woman who had given birth to the male child.
And the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman so that she would fly from the presence of the serpent to the desert, to its place, where it was sustained for a time, times, and half a time.
And the serpent threw from its mouth, after the woman, water like a river, to cause it to be swept away by the current.
But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had thrown from her mouth.
Then the dragon was enraged against the woman, and went out to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus.
[Not available]
