I was given a rod-like measuring rod, and someone said, Arise and measure the temple of God and the altar, and those who worship in it.
But exclude the courtyard outside the temple, do not measure it, because it has been given to the nations, and they will tread the holy city for forty-two months.
And I will give authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks that are before the Lord of the earth.
And if anyone wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies; This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die.
These have power to close the sky so that it does not rain during the days in which they prophesy; and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with all kinds of plagues as many times as they want.
When they have finished giving their testimony, the beast that rises from the abyss will make war against them, overcome them and kill them.
And their corpses will lie in the street of the great city, which is symbolically called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was also crucified.
And people of all peoples, tribes, languages ​​and nations, will behold their corpses for three and a half days, and will not allow their corpses to be buried.
And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and rejoice, and send each other gifts, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
But after three and a half days, the breath of life from God came to them and they stood up, and great fear fell upon those who beheld them.
Then they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them: Come up here. And they went up to heaven in the cloud, and their enemies saw them.
In that same hour there was a great earthquake and a tenth of the city collapsed, and seven thousand people died in the earthquake, and the rest, terrified, gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second, alas! has passed; behold, the third woe! coming soon.
The seventh angel sounded the trumpet, and great voices arose in heaven, saying: The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ; and He will reign for ever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders who were sitting before God on their thrones fell down on their faces and worshiped God,
saying: We thank you, O Lord Almighty God, who you are and who you were, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign.
And the nations were enraged, and your anger came, and the time came to judge the dead and to reward your servants the prophets, the saints and those who fear your name, the little ones and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
The temple of God in heaven was opened; and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple, and there was lightning, voices, and thunder, and an earthquake, and a hailstorm.