And a great sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
And being pregnant, she cried with labor pains and suffered from giving birth.
And another sign appeared in the sky: and behold, a great red dragon that had seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
And its tail dragged a third of the stars from the sky, and threw them on the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who had given birth, to devour her son as soon as he was born.
And she gave birth to a male child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron; and her son was caught up to God and to his throne.
And the woman fled into the desert, where she had a place prepared by God, to be supported there for twelve hundred and sixty days.
And there was a great battle in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon and his angels were fighting,
but they did not prevail, nor was their place found in heaven any longer.
And that great dragon, the ancient serpent, called Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world, was thrown out; He was thrown down to earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
And I heard a great voice in heaven saying: Now have come salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ, because the accuser of our brothers has been cast out, the one who accused them before our God day and night.
And they have overcome him through the blood of the Lamb and the word of his testimony, and they did not love their lives, not even to suffer death.
Therefore rejoice, heavens, and you who dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitants of the land and the sea, because the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that he has little time.
And when the dragon saw that it had been thrown to the ground, it chased the woman who had given birth to the male child.
And the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman, so that she would fly from the presence of the serpent to the desert, to its place, where it is sustained for a time, and times and half a time.
And the serpent threw from his mouth, after the woman, water like a river, in order to cause it to be swept away by the river.
But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had thrown from her mouth.
Then the dragon was enraged against the woman, and went to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.
[Not available]
