The fifth angel blew the trumpet. And I saw that a star had fallen from heaven to earth, and the key to the bottomless pit was given to it.
And he opened the well of the abyss, and smoke rose from the well like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun was darkened and also the air by the smoke of the well.
And locusts came out of the smoke upon the earth, and they were given power as the scorpions of the earth have power.
And they were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree, but only men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
They were commanded not to kill them, but to be tormented for five months. His torment was like the scorpion's torment when it stings man.
In those days men will seek death, but in no way will they find it. They will long to die, and death will flee from them.
The appearance of the locusts was similar to horses equipped for war. On their heads they had like crowns, similar to gold, and their faces were like men's faces.
They had hair like women's hair, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
They had breastplates like iron breastplates. The thunder of their wings was like the sound of chariots running with many horses into battle.
They have tails similar to those of scorpions, and stingers. And in its tails is its power to harm men for five months.
They have a king over them, the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon [a], and in Greek he has the name Apollion [b].
The first woe has passed. Here are still two woes after this.
The sixth angel blew the trumpet. And I heard a voice coming from the four horns of the golden altar that was before God,
Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Unleash the four angels who have been bound by the great Euphrates River."
The four angels who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year were unleashed to kill a third of the men.
The number of the soldiers on horseback was two myriads of myriads [c]; I heard the number of them.
And thus, I saw in the vision the horses and those who rode on them, who had armor of fire, hyacinth and sulfur. The heads of the horses were like the heads of lions; and from their mouths came fire, smoke, and brimstone.
A third of the men were killed by these three plagues: by the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur that came out of their mouths.
For the power of horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are snake-like, and they have heads with which they wound.
The other men who were not killed by these plagues or even repented of the works of their hands, to stop worshiping demons and the images of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which did not They can see, hear, and walk.
Nor did they repent of their murders, or of their sorceries, or of their sexual immorality, or of their robberies.