The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the things that must happen soon; and who made it known by sending it through his angel to his servant John,
who has testified of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, of all that he has seen.
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep the things written in it, for the time is at hand.
John, to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne,
and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead and the sovereign of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us and delivered us from our sins with his blood,
and he made us into a kingdom, priests for God his Father; to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him: even those who pierced him. All the tribes of the earth will lament for him. Yes, amen!
"I am the Alpha and the Omega" [b], says the Lord God, "he who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty."
I John, his brother and partner in tribulation and in the kingdom and in perseverance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day and heard behind me a great voice like a trumpet,
which said [c]: "Write what you see in a book, and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea."
I turned to see the voice that spoke to me. And having turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks,
and in the midst of the candlesticks I saw one similar to the Son of Man, dressed in a garment that reached to his feet and his chest was girded with a golden belt.
His head and hair were white as wool, white as snow, and his eyes were like a flame of fire.
His feet were like burnished bronze, burning like an oven [d]. Her voice was like the roar of many waters.
He had seven stars in his right hand, and from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword. His face was like the sun when it shines in his strength.
When I saw him, I fell as dead at his feet. And he put his right hand on me and said: "Fear not. I am the first and the last,
the one who lives. I was dead, and behold, I live forever and ever. And I have the keys of death and Hades.
So write down the things you have seen, and what they are, and what must be after them.
As for the mystery of the seven stars that you have seen in my right hand, and of the seven golden candlesticks: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks are the seven churches.