And I heard a great voice saying from the temple to the seven angels: Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.
The first angel went and poured his cup on the earth; and there was a disgusting and evil sore on the men who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
The second angel poured out his cup into the sea, and it became blood as of the dead; And every living being in the sea died.
The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the fountains of the waters, and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters, saying: You are righteous, you who are, and he who was, O Holy One, because you have judged these things;
for they shed blood of saints and prophets and you have given them blood to drink; they deserve it.
And I heard the altar saying: Yes, O Lord Almighty God, your judgments are true and just.
The fourth angel poured out his cup on the sun; and it was given to the sun to burn men with fire.
And the men were burned with the intense heat; and they blasphemed the name of God who has power over these plagues, and they did not repent to give him glory.
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast; and his kingdom was left in darkness, and they bit their tongues of pain.
And they blasphemed against the God of heaven because of their pain and sores, and did not repent of their works.
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates; and its waters dried up so that the way might be prepared for the kings of the east.
And I saw three unclean frog-like spirits come out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet;
for they are sign spirits of demons, which go to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together for the battle of the great day of Almighty God.
(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and guards his clothes, lest he walk naked and they see his shame.)
And they gathered them together in the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured his cup into the air; And a great voice came from the temple, from the throne, saying: It is done.
Then there was lightning, voices, and thunder; and there was a great earthquake such as there had not been since man is on earth; it was so big and powerful earthquake.
The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And great Babylon was remembered before God to give him the cup of wine from the fury of his wrath.
And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
And huge hail, as of a talent each, fell * on men; and men blasphemed God for the plague of hail, because his plague was * exceedingly great.