And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me, saying: Come here, and I will show you the condemnation of the great harlot, who is sitting on many waters,
with which the kings of the earth have fornicated, and those who dwell on the earth have been drunk with the wine of their fornication.
And he led me in the Spirit into the desert; and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast full of blasphemous names, which had seven heads and ten horns.
And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, and with precious stones and pearls, and she had in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the filth of her fornication;
and on his forehead was a name written: MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus; and when I saw it, I was amazed with great amazement.
And the angel said to me: Why are you amazed? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and the beast that carries her, which has seven heads and ten horns.
The beast that you have seen was and is not; and he is about to rise from the abyss and go to perdition; and the inhabitants of the earth, whose names have not been written in the book of life since the foundation of the world, will be amazed when they see the beast that was and is not, but will be.
This, for the mind that has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sits.
And they are seven kings. Five have fallen; one is, and the other has not yet come; And when it comes, it needs to last a short time.
And the beast that was, and is not, is also the eighth, and is one of the seven and is going to perdition.
And the ten horns you have seen are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom; but they will receive power as kings for an hour, together with the beast.
These have the same purpose, and will give their power and authority to the beast.
They will fight against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because he is Lord of lords and King of kings; and those who are with him are called, and chosen and faithful.
He also said to me: The waters that you have seen, where the harlot sits, are peoples, crowds, nations and languages.
And the ten horns that you saw in the beast, these will hate the harlot, and will leave her desolate and naked; and they will eat its meats and burn it with fire;
because God has put in their hearts to execute what he proposed, to agree and give his kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.
And the woman you have seen is the great city that reigns over the kings of the earth.