After these things I heard a great voice as of a great multitude in the sky, saying: Hallelujah! Salvation, and honor, and glory and power are from the Lord our God,
for his judgments are true and just, for he has judged the great harlot who has corrupted the earth with her fornication, and has avenged the blood of her servants by her hand.
And again they said: Hallelujah! And her smoke rises forever and ever.
Then the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down on the ground and worshiped God, who was sitting on the throne, and said: Amen! Hallelujah!
And from the throne came a voice that said: Praise our God all his servants, and those who fear him, both small and great.
And I heard the voice as of a great multitude, and as the roar of many waters and as the voice of great thunder, that said: Hallelujah, because the Lord God Almighty reigns.
Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has prepared herself.
And she has been granted to wear fine linen, clean and resplendent, because fine linen is the righteous actions of the saints.
And the angel said to me: Write: Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me: These are true words of God.
So I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said to me: Look, don't do it !; I am a servant to you and to your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God !, because the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and the one who rode it was called Faithful and True. And with justice he judges and makes war.
And his eyes were like a flame of fire, and there were many diadems in his head; and he had a written name that no one knew but himself.
And he was dressed in clothes dyed in blood, and his name is: THE VERB OF GOD.
And the armies that are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
And out of his mouth comes a sharp sword to strike the nations with it; and he will rule them with a rod of iron; And he treads the winepress of the wine of the wrath and wrath of the Almighty God.
And on his garment and on his thigh he has this name written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven: Come, and assemble yourselves for the supper of the great God,
that you may eat the meat of kings, and the meat of captains, and the meat of the mighty, and the meat of horses and their horsemen; and meat of all, of free and of slaves, of small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to wage war against the horseman and his army.
And the beast was seized, and with it the false prophet who had made the signs before her, by which he had deceived those who received the mark of the beast and worshiped his image. The two were thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with sulfur.
And the rest were slain with the sword that came out of the horse rider's mouth, and all the birds were satisfied with their meat.