Then he showed me a clean river, of water of life, shining like crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the middle of the city street, and on either side of the river, was the tree of life, which produces twelve fruits, bearing fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there will be no more curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be on it, and his servants will serve him.
And they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
And there will be no more night, and they will have no need of lamp light or sunlight, because God the Lord will light them, and they will reign forever and ever.
And he said to me: These words are faithful and true. And God, the Lord of the holy prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants the things that must happen soon.
And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy in this book.
I, John, am the one who has heard and seen these things. And after I had heard and seen them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
But he said to me: Look, don't do it, because I am your servant, and of your brothers, the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.
And he said to me: Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, because the time is near.
He who is unjust is still unjust; and he who is impure is still impure; and he that is just, let him be just still; and he who is holy, let him be holy still.
And behold, I am coming soon, and my reward with me, to reward each one according to his work.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
Blessed are those who keep his commandments, that they may have a right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city through the gates.
But the dogs will be out, and the sorcerers, the fornicators, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices lying.
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to bear witness to you of these things in the churches. I am the root and the line of David, the shining star of the morning.
And the Spirit and the Bride say: Come! And whoever hears, say: Come! And whoever is thirsty, come; and whoever wants, take freely the water of life.
For I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy in this book: If anyone adds to these things, God will bring upon him the plagues that are written in this book.
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part of the book of life, and of the holy city and of the things that are written in this book.
He who testifies to these things says, I am coming shortly. Amen! Yes, come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.