The dragon stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast come up out of the sea that had ten horns and seven heads; on their horns were ten diadems, and on their heads were blasphemous names.
The beast that I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like those of a bear and its mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power, his throne and great authority.
And I saw one of their heads as a death wound, but their mortal wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled and followed after the beast;
and they worshiped the dragon, because he had given authority to the beast; and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast, and who can fight it?
He was given a mouth that spoke arrogant words and blasphemies, and he was given authority to act for forty-two months.
And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, that is, against those who dwell in heaven.
He was granted to make war against the saints and to overcome them; and authority was given to him over every tribe, people, language, and nation.
And all those who dwell on the earth, whose names have not been written, since the foundation of the world, in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain will adore it.
If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
If anyone is destined for captivity, he goes to captivity; if anyone is to die with the sword, he must die with the sword. Here is the perseverance and faith of the saints.
And I saw another beast coming up out of the ground; it had two horns like those of a lamb and spoke like a dragon.
He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
He also does great signs, in such a way that he even descends fire from heaven to earth in the presence of men.
He also deceives those who dwell on the earth because of the signs that he was granted to do in the presence of the beast, telling the inhabitants of the earth to make an image of the beast that had * the wound of the sword and that has relived.
He was given encouragement to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would also speak and put to death all who do not worship the image of the beast.
And it causes everyone, small and large, rich and poor, free and slave, to be given a mark on the right hand or on the forehead,
and that nobody can buy or sell, but the one that has the mark: the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for the number is that of a man, and his number is six hundred and sixty-six.