And I looked, and behold the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him were the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.
I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the voice of great thunder. And the voice I heard was like harpists when they play their harps.
They sing a new hymn before the throne and in the presence of the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the hymn except the one hundred and forty-four thousand, who had been redeemed from the earth.
These are the ones who never stained themselves with women, because they are virgins. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These were redeemed from among men, firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
And no deception was found in their mouths; they are spotless.
I saw another angel flying in the middle of heaven, who had the everlasting gospel to preach to those who live on earth: to every nation and race and language and people.
He said with a loud voice: "Fear God and give him glory, for the hour of his judgment has come! Worship the one who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and the fountains of waters."
And another angel followed, for a second, saying: "Babylon the great has fallen! All the nations had drunk of the wine of the fury of their immorality."
And another angel followed, a third, saying with a loud voice: "If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark on the forehead or in the hand,
He will also drink of the wine of the wrath of God that has been poured pure in the cup of His wrath, and will be tormented with fire and brimstone before the holy angels and before the Lamb.
The smoke from their torment rises forever and ever. And those who worship the beast and its image have no rest, day or night, nor does anyone who receives the mark of his name.
Here is the perseverance of the saints, who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus! "
And I heard a voice from heaven saying: "Write: Blessed are the dead who henceforth die in the Lord!" "Yes," says the Spirit, "so that they may rest from their hard work, for their work will follow."
And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud sat one like the Son of Man [a]. He had a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.
And another angel came out of the temple, shouting with a loud voice to the one who sat on the cloud: "Put in your sickle and reap! For the time has come to reap, because the harvest of the earth is ripe."
And the one sitting on the cloud threw his sickle on the earth, and the earth was mowed.
Then another angel came out of the temple that was in heaven, also carrying a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out from the altar who had power over the fire. And he called with a loud voice to the one with the sharp sickle, saying: "Put your sharp sickle and harvest the clusters of the vineyard of the earth, because the grapes are ripe!".
Then the angel threw his sharp sickle into the ground, and harvested the vineyard from the ground. He placed the grapes in the great winepress of God's wrath.
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress to the height of the horses' bridles, for three hundred kilometers.