I saw an angel coming down from heaven holding in his hand the key to the abyss and a great chain.
He caught the dragon, that ancient serpent who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years.
He threw him into the abyss and closed it, and sealed it over him so that he would no longer deceive the nations until the thousand years were finished. After this, it needs to be unleashed for a little while.
And I saw thrones; and they sat upon them, and they were granted judgment. And I saw the souls of those who had their throats cut because of the testimony of Jesus and the word of God. They had not worshiped the beast or its image, nor did they receive its mark on their foreheads or hands. They lived again and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
But the rest of the dead did not live again, until the thousand years were over. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power; but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years.
When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released from his prison
and he will go out to deceive the nations that are on the four cardinal points of the earth, Gog and Magog [a], in order to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea.
And they went up over the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, and fire came down from heaven and devoured them.
And the devil who was deceiving them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where there are also the beast and the false prophet, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them.
I also saw the dead, great and small, who stood before the throne, and the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged based on the things written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and Death and Hades delivered the dead that were in them; and they were judged, each according to his works.
And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire [b].
And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.