And I saw an angel coming down from heaven, with the key to the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
He caught the dragon, the ancient serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years;
And he threw him into the abyss, and closed it and sealed it over him, so that he would no longer deceive the nations, until the thousand years were finished; after this it should be unleashed for a little while.
I also saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and they were given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or his image, nor received the mark on his forehead or on his hand; and they came back to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; the second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with Him for a thousand years.
When the thousand years are up, Satan will be released from his prison,
and he will go out to deceive the nations at the four ends of the earth, Gog and Magog, in order to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
And they went up over the breadth of the earth, surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and devoured them.
And the devil who was deceiving them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where there are also the beast and the false prophet; and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them.
And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and Death and Hades delivered the dead that were in them; and they were judged, each according to his works.
And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death: the lake of fire.
And he who was not inscribed in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.