He writes to the angel of the church in Ephesus: "He who has the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden candlesticks, says this:
"I know your works, your fatigue and your perseverance, and that you cannot bear the bad, and you have put to test those who claim to be apostles and are not, and you have found them liars.
You have perseverance, and you have suffered for my name and you have not fainted.
But I have this against you: that you have left your first love.
Remember, therefore, where you have fallen and repent, and do the works you did at the beginning; if not, I will come to you and remove your candlestick from its place, if you do not regret it.
Yet you have this: that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the victor I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Smyrna: "The first and the last, the one who was dead and has returned to life, says this:
"I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy of those who claim to be Jews and are not, but are Satan's synagogue.
Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil will throw some of you into prison to be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The victor will not take damage from the second death "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Pergamum: "He who has the sharp two-edged sword says this:
"I know where you dwell: where Satan's throne is. You faithfully keep my name and you have not denied my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful servant, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
But I have a few things against you, because you have there those who maintain the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to stumble before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit acts of immorality.
So you also have some who in the same way maintain the doctrine of the Nicolaitans.
Therefore, repent; if not, I will come to you soon and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the overcomer I will give of the hidden manna, and I will give a white stone, and engraved on the stone a new name, which no one knows but he who receives it. "
And he writes to the angel of the church in Thyatira: "The Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze, says this:
"I know your works, your love, your faith, your service and your perseverance, and that your recent works are greater than the first.
But I have this against you: that you tolerate that Jezebel woman, who claims to be a prophetess, and teaches and seduces my servants to commit immoral acts and eat things sacrificed to idols.
I have given him time to repent, and he does not want to repent of his immorality.
Look, I will prostrate her in bed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw in great tribulation, if they do not repent of her works.
And I will kill their children with pestilence, and all the churches will know that I am the one that searches the minds and the hearts, and I will give to each one according to your works.
But to you, to the others who are in Thyatira, to those who do not have this doctrine, who have not known the profound things of Satan, as they call them, I say: I do not impose another burden on you.
However, what you have, hold it until I come.
And to the overcomer, to the keeper of my works to the end, I will give authority over the nations;
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the potter's vessels are shattered, as I also have received authority from my Father;
and I'll give you the morning star.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".