Then a reed like a measuring stick was given to me, and I was told: Arise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar and those who worship on it.
And leave aside the courtyard that is outside the temple and do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles; and they will trample the holy city forty-two months.
And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, dressed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks that are before the God of the earth.
And if anyone wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies; and if anyone wants to harm them, they must die in the same way.
These have power to close the sky so that it does not rain in the days of their prophecy; and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with all plague as many times as they want.
And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the abyss will make war against them, will overcome them and will kill them.
And their corpses will lie in the square of the great city that in spiritual sense is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
And people of every people, and tribe, and tongue and nation will see their corpses for three and a half days, and they will not allow them to be buried.
And the inhabitants of the earth will rejoice over them and rejoice, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets had tormented those who dwelt on the earth.
But after three and a half days, the spirit of life sent by God entered them, and they rose to their feet, and great fear fell upon those who saw them.
And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them: Come up here. And they went up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies saw them.
And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city collapsed, and by the earthquake they died in number like seven thousand men; and the others were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second, alas! has passed; behold, the third woe! coming soon.
And the seventh angel sounded the trumpet, and there were great voices in heaven saying: The kingdoms of the world have become kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ; and he will reign forever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders who were sitting before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshiped God,
saying: We thank you, O Lord Almighty God, that you are and that you were and that you are to come, because you have taken your great power and reigned.
And the nations have become angry, and your anger has come, and also the time to judge the dead, and to give the reward to your servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear your name, to the little ones and to the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple. And there was lightning, and voices, and thunder, and a great earthquake and hail.