After these things I saw another angel descending from heaven and having great authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory.
And he proclaimed in a powerful voice saying: "Babylon the great has fallen, she has fallen! She has become the habitation of demons, the refuge of every unclean spirit, and the refuge of every unclean and abhorrent bird.
For all the nations have drunk the wine of the fury of their fornication. The kings of the land have fornicated with her, and the merchants of the land have been enriched with the power of their luxurious sensuality. "
I heard another voice from heaven saying: "Come out of her, my people, so that they do not share in their sins and so that they do not receive their plagues!
For their sins have piled up to heaven, and God has remembered their injustices.
Pay her as she has paid you, and pay her back double according to her deeds. In the cup she made, prepare twice as much.
To the extent that she has glorified herself and lived in sensuality, so give her torment and tears, because she says in her heart: 'I am sitting as queen; I am not a widow, nor will I ever see crying. '
So in one day the plagues will overtake him: death, weeping and hunger. And it will be burned with fire, because strong it is the Lord God who judges it.
"When they see the smoke from her fire, the kings of the earth who have fornicated with her and have lived on her sensuality will cry and lament for her.
Standing from afar for fear of their torment, they will say: 'Alas! Woe to you, O great city, O Babylon, mighty city; because in a single hour your judgment came! '
"And the merchants of the land cry and mourn for it, because no one buys their merchandise anymore:
merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, scarlet, all fragrant wood, all articles of ivory, all articles of precious wood and copper and iron and marble;
cinnamon, aromatic spices, incense, myrrh, perfumes, wine, oil, refined flour, wheat, cattle, sheep, horses, cars, and the bodies and souls of men.
"The fruit that your soul longs for has departed from you. All the exquisite and splendid things have vanished, and they will never find them.
"The merchants of these goods who have become rich from it will stand, from afar for fear of their torment, crying and regretting,
saying, 'Ouch! Woe to the great city, clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls!
Because in a single hour so much wealth has been ravaged! ' "And every helmsman, everyone who sails from place to place, and sailors and all those who work at sea stood up from afar.
And seeing the smoke of their fire, they cried out saying: 'What city was similar to this great city?'
They threw dust on their heads, and crying and wailing, they shouted saying: 'Oh! Woe to the great city! In it all those who had ships at sea were enriched by her opulence. Because in a single hour it has been devastated! '
"Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets. For God has judged your cause against her."
And a mighty angel took a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea saying, "With such violence Babylon the great city will be thrown down, and it will never again be found.
Never again will you hear the sound of harpists, musicians, flute players or trumpeters. No artisan of any trade will ever be found in you again. And the noise of the mills will never be heard from you again.
The torchlight will never shine on you again. And the voice of the groom and the bride will never be heard from you again; because your merchants were the magnates of the earth, and because all the nations were deceived by your sorceries.
And in it was found the blood of the prophets and of the saints and of all those who have been killed on earth. "