I looked, and behold, the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion, and with Him a hundred and forty-four thousand who had His name and the name of their Father written on their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of great thunder; and the voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing their harps.
And they sang * a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been rescued from the earth.
These are the ones who have not defiled themselves with women, as they are chaste. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These have been rescued from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
No deception was found in his mouth; are spotless.
And I saw another angel flying in the middle of heaven who had an everlasting gospel to announce it to those who live on earth, and to every nation, tribe, language and people,
saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, because the hour of his judgment has arrived; worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the fountains of waters.
And another angel followed him, the second, saying: Great Babylon fell, fell! the one that has made all nations drink of the wine of the passion of their immorality.
Then another angel followed them, the third, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or in his hand,
he will also drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared pure in the cup of his wrath; and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone before the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
And the smoke of his torment rises forever and ever; and they have no rest, day or night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.
Here is the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying: Write: "Blessed are the dead who henceforth die in the Lord." Yes, says the Spirit, so that they rest from their works, because their works go with them.
And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man, who had a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
Then another angel came out of the temple crying out with a loud voice to the one who sat in the cloud: Put in your sickle and reap, because the harvest time has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe.
And he that sat on the cloud brandished his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, who also had a sharp sickle.
And another angel, the one who has power over the fire, came out of the altar; And he called to the one who had the sharp sickle with a loud voice, saying: Put your sharp sickle and harvest the clusters of the vine of the earth, because its grapes are ripe.
The angel brandished his sickle on the earth, and harvested the clusters of the vine of the earth and threw them in the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress that went up to the horses' bridles for a distance of about three hundred and twenty kilometers.