After this, I saw four angels standing on the four cardinal points of the earth, stopping the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree .
And I saw that another angel, coming up from the east, had the seal of the living God. And he called with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to harm the earth and the sea,
saying: "Do not harm the land, the sea, or the trees, until we mark with a seal the forehead of the servants of our God!".
I heard the number of the sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from all the tribes of the children of Israel.
Sealed, from the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Rubén, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand; from the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar;
twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun; twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph; of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand.
After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude of all nations and races and peoples and languages, and no one could count their number. They are standing before the throne and in the presence of the Lamb, dressed in white robes and holding palms in their hands.
They cry out with a loud voice saying: "Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!"
All the angels who stood around the throne, and the elders and the four living creatures, fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God saying:
"Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and strength be to our God for ever and ever. Amen!"
One of the elders asked me saying: —Who are they dressed in white robes, who are they and where did they come from?
And I said to him: "My Lord, you know that." And he said to me: —These are the ones who come from the great tribulation; they have washed their clothes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
This is why they stand before the throne of God and worship him day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them.
They will no longer be hungry, they will not be thirsty, nor will the sun or any other heat fall on them;
because the Lamb that is in the middle of the throne will shepherd them and will guide them to sources of living water, and God will wipe every tear from their eyes.