And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven who had great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.
And he cried out in a mighty voice, saying, Great Babylon has fallen, has fallen! It has become a habitation of demons, and a den of every unclean spirit and a shelter for every unclean and abhorrent bird.
For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the fury of their fornication; and the kings of the earth have fornicated with it, and the merchants of the earth have enriched themselves with the power of their delights.
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying: Come out of her, my people, so that you will not be partakers of her sins nor receive part of her plagues!
Because their sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered their wickedness.
Give to her just as she has given you, and pay her double according to her works; in the cup in which she made a drink, make twice as much for her.
As much as she has glorified herself and lived in delights, give her both torment and tears, because she says in her heart: I am sitting as a queen and I am not a widow and I will not see tears.
Therefore, in one day their plagues will come: death, weeping and hunger; and she will be burned with fire, because God the Lord is powerful, who will judge her.
And the kings of the earth who have fornicated with her and who have lived with her in delight, when they see the smoke of her fire, they will cry and lament for her,
being far away for fear of his torment, saying: Woe, woe, to the great city of Babylon, the strong city, because in one hour your judgment came!
And the merchants of the earth cry and mourn for it, because no one buys their merchandise anymore:
merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, scarlet, silk, scarlet, all fragrant wood, all objects in ivory, all objects in precious wood, copper, iron and marble;
cinnamon, aromatic spices, ointments, incense, wine, oil, flour, wheat, beasts, sheep, horses, chariots, slaves, and souls of men.
And the fruits coveted by your soul departed from you; and all the sumptuous and splendid things you have lacked and you will never find them again.
The merchants of these things, who have grown rich at her expense, will keep away from fear of their torment, crying and lamenting,
and saying: Woe, woe to that great city, which was clothed in fine linen, and purple and scarlet, and was adorned with gold, and with precious stones and pearls!
Because in a single hour so much wealth has been desolated. And every captain, and everyone who travels on ships, and sailors and everyone who works at sea, stayed far away;
And seeing the smoke of their fire, they cried out, saying: What city was like that great city?
And they threw dust on their heads and cried out, crying and wailing, saying: Woe, woe, to that great city, in which all who had ships in the sea had become rich with their riches! Because in a single hour it has been desolate!
Rejoice over her, heaven, and you, holy apostles and prophets, because God has done you justice in her.
And a mighty angel took a stone, like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying: Babylon, the great city, will be thrown down with equal impetus, and will never again be found.
And the voice of harpists, musicians, flute players and trumpeters will no longer be heard in you; and there will no longer be found in you any craftsman; and the noise of the mill will no longer be heard in you.
And the light of a lamp will no longer shine in you, neither the voice of a boyfriend nor a girlfriend will be heard any more in you, because your merchants were the magnates of the earth, because by your sorceries all the nations have been deceived.
And in her was found the blood of the prophets, and of the saints and of all those who have been killed on earth.