I saw a new heaven and a new earth; because the first heaven and the first earth passed, and the sea no longer exists.
And I [a] saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem descending from heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
I heard a great voice coming from the throne saying: "Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them; and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
And God will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death, no more crying, no cry, no pain; because the first things are over. "
He who sat on the throne said, "Behold, I make all things new." And he said: "Write, because these words are faithful and true."
He also told me: "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega [b], the beginning and the end. To the thirsty, I will give freely from the fountain of water of life."
"He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
But, for cowards and unbelievers, for abominable and murderous, for fornicators and sorcerers, for idolaters and all liars, their inheritance will be the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. "
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the seven last plagues came and spoke to me saying, "Come here. I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife."
He carried me in the Spirit [c] on a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city of Jerusalem, descending from heaven from God.
It had the glory of God, and its brilliance was like the most precious stone, like a jasper stone, glittering like crystal.
It had a large and high wall. It had twelve gates, and at the gates were twelve angels, and inscribed names which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
Three doors faced east, three doors north, three doors south, and three doors west.
The city wall had twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the apostles of the Lamb.
He who spoke to me had a measuring stick, of gold, to measure the city, its gates, and its wall.
The city is arranged in a square shape. Its length is equal to its width. He measured the city with the reed, and it had two thousand two hundred kilometers. Length, width and height are the same.
He measured his wall, seventy meters according to the measure of man, which is that of the angel.
The material of the wall was jasper, and the city was of pure gold like clean glass.
The foundations of the city wall were adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation was of jasper, the second of sapphire, the third of agate, the fourth of emerald,
the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh hyacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
The twelve gates were twelve pearls; each door was made of a single pearl. The plaza was pure gold as clear glass.
I did not see a temple in it, because the Lord God Almighty, and the Lamb, is her temple.
The city does not need the sun or the moon, so that they shine in it; for the glory of God illuminates it, and the Lamb is its lamp.
The nations will walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth bring their glory to it.
Its doors will never be closed during the day, because there will be no night there.
And they will bring to it the glory and honor of the nations.
Nothing impure or that does abomination and lies will enter it, but only those who are inscribed in the Lamb's book of life.