And I saw a beast come up out of the sea that had ten horns and seven heads. On his horns he had ten diadems, and on his heads was a name of blasphemy [a].
The beast that I saw was like a leopard; His feet were like a bear, and his mouth was like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority.
I saw one of their heads as a death wound, but their mortal wound had healed. And all the earth marveled after the beast,
and they worshiped the dragon because he had given authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast saying, "Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?"
And the beast was given a mouth that spoke insolence and blasphemies, and authority was given to act for forty-two months.
And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme against his name and against his tabernacle, that is, against those who live in heaven.
And he was allowed to make war with the saints and to overcome them. He was also given power over every race and people and language and nation.
And all the inhabitants on earth will worship him, whose names are not inscribed in the Lamb's book of life, who was slain from the foundation of the world.
If anyone has an ear, hear:
If someone leads in captivity, he is taken in captivity; if someone kills with the sword, they have to be killed with the sword. Here is the perseverance and faith of the saints!
And I saw another beast coming up out of the ground. And it had two horns like a lamb, and it spoke like a dragon.
And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in her presence, and causes the earth and its inhabitants to worship the first beast whose mortal wound was healed.
And he does great signs, in such a way that he even descends fire from heaven to earth before men.
And he deceives the inhabitants of the earth because of the signs that he was granted to do in the presence of the beast, commanding the inhabitants of the earth to make an image in honor of the beast that has the sword wound and that revived.
He was also allowed to encourage the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would speak and cause all those who did not worship the image of the beast to be killed.
And she makes everyone, small and large, rich and poor, free and slave, put a mark on the right hand or on the forehead,
and that no one can buy or sell, except the one with the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Here is wisdom: Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man; And his number is six hundred sixty-six.