After these things, I heard the great voice of a huge crowd in heaven saying, "Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God.
Because his judgments are true and fair; for he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged the blood of her servants by her hand. "
And for the second time they said, "Hallelujah!" And her smoke went up forever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who was sitting on the throne, saying: "Amen! Hallelujah!"
Then a voice came out of the throne saying: "Praise our God, all his servants and those who fear him, both small and great!"
I heard like the voice of a great crowd, like the noise of many waters and like the sound of strong thunder, saying: "Hallelujah! Because the Lord our Almighty God reigns.
Let us rejoice, rejoice, and give glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has prepared herself.
And she has been granted to dress in fine linen, shining and clean. "Because fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
The angel said to me, "Write: Blessed are those who have been called to the marriage supper of the Lamb." He also told me: "These are true words from God."
I fell at his feet to worship him, but he said to me: "Look, don't do it! I am a servant to you and to your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of the prophecy. "
I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and the one who rode it is called FAITHFUL AND TRUE. And with justice he judges and makes war.
His eyes are like a flame of fire. In his head he has many diadems, and he has a written name that nobody knows but himself.
He is clothed in a blood-stained garment, and his name is called THE WORD [OF] GOD.
The armies in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
A sharp sword comes out of his mouth to strike the nations with it, and he will guide them with an iron scepter. He treads the winepress of the wine of the wrath and wrath of the Almighty God.
On his garment and on his thigh he has written the name: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he shouted with a loud voice to all the birds that were flying in the middle of the sky, saying, "Come! Gather for the great banquet of God!
That they may eat the flesh of kings, of commanders, and of the mighty; and the meat of horses and their riders; and the flesh of all, both free and slaves, both small and large. "
And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him who was riding the horse and against his army.
And the beast was taken prisoner, along with the false prophet who had made before him the signs with which he had deceived those who received the mark of the beast and worshiped his image. Both were thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with sulfur.
The rest were killed with the sword that came out of the mouth of the one sitting on the horse, and all the birds were fed up with their meat.