The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him, to show his servants the things that must happen soon; And he made it known, sending it through his angel to his servant John,
who bore witness to the word of God, and to the witness of Jesus Christ, and to all that he saw.
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand.
John, to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace, from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne,
and of Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead and the sovereign of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us and delivered us from our sins with his blood,
and made us a kingdom and priests for his God and Father, to Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he comes with the clouds and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth will lament for Him; yes. Amen.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
I, John, your brother and companion in tribulation, in the kingdom, and in perseverance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos, because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice, like the sound of a trumpet,
which said: Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.
And I turned to see whose voice was speaking to me. And when I turned around, I saw seven golden candlesticks;
And in the middle of the candelabra, I saw one similar to the Son of Man, dressed in a tunic that reached to his feet and girded around his chest with a golden belt.
Her head and hair were white as white wool, as snow; his eyes were like a flame of fire;
his feet like burnished bronze when it has been made to glow in the furnace, and his voice like the noise of many waters.
In his right hand he held seven stars, and from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword; his face was like the sun when it shines with all its force.
When I saw him, I fell as dead at his feet. And He put his right hand on me, saying: Fear not, I am the first and the last,
and he who lives, and was dead; and behold, I am alive for ever and ever, and I have the keys of death and of Hades.
Write, then, the things that you have seen, and those that are, and those that will happen after these.
As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and of the seven golden candlesticks: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks are the seven churches.