And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and out, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the book and loosen its seals?
And no one, neither in heaven nor on earth nor under the earth, could open the book, or even look at it.
And I was crying a lot, because no one had been found worthy to open the book, read it or look at it.
And one of the elders said to me: Don't cry; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome to open the book and untie its seven seals.
And look; and behold, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as though it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent throughout the earth.
And he came, and took the book from the right hand of him that sat on the throne.
And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb; and each had a harp, and golden bowls filled with incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sang a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the book and open its seals; because you were slain, and with your blood you have redeemed us for God, of all lineage, and tongue, and people and nation;
and you have made us kings and priests for our God, and we will reign on earth.
And I looked, and heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and of the living beings and of the elders; and the number of them was thousands of thousands and millions of millions,
who said aloud: The Lamb that was slain is worthy to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory and praise.
And to every living thing that is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and in the sea, and all that is in them, I heard them say: To him that sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, be praise, and honor, and glory and power, forever and ever.
And the four living beings said: Amen! And the twenty-four elders fell on their faces and worshiped the one who lives forever and ever.