And I heard from the temple a great voice saying to the seven angels: Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.
And he was the first, and poured his cup on the ground; and a malignant and disgusting ulcer came upon the men who had the mark of the beast and upon those who worshiped its image.
And the second angel poured out his bowl on the sea, and it became blood as of the dead; And every living soul in the sea died.
And the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and on the fountains of the waters, and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters, saying: You are righteous, O Lord, the one who is and the one who was, the Holy One, because you have judged these things.
Because they shed the blood of the saints and the prophets, you have also given them blood to drink, for they deserve it.
I also heard another who said from the altar: Certainly, Lord God Almighty, your judgments are true and just.
And the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was given to him to burn men with fire.
And the men were burned with the great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has power over these plagues, and they did not repent to give him glory.
And the fifth angel poured out his cup on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became dark, and the people bit their tongues in pain;
and they blasphemed the God of heaven for their pain and ulcers, and did not repent of their works.
And the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates; and the water of it was dried up, that the way might be prepared for the kings of the East.
And I saw three unclean frog-like spirits come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet;
because they are spirits of demons, who make signs, and they go to the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them for the battle of that great day of Almighty God.
Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches over and guards his garments, lest he walk naked and see their shame.
And he gathered them together in the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured his cup into the air; And a great voice came out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying: It is done!
Then there was lightning, and voices and thunder; and there was a great earthquake, an earthquake so great, which there has never been since men have been on earth.
And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell; and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give him the cup of wine from the fury of his wrath.
And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
And huge hailstones fell from heaven upon men as the weight of a talent; and men blasphemed God for the plague of hail, because his plague was exceedingly great.