A great sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the sun and with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
And being pregnant, she cried with labor pains and suffered anguish for giving birth.
And another sign appeared in the sky: behold a great red dragon that had seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads he had seven diadems.
Its tail dragged a third of the stars from the sky and threw them on the ground. The dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, to devour her son as soon as she had given birth to him.
She gave birth to a male child who is to guide all nations with an iron scepter. And her son was caught up before God and his throne.
And the woman fled into the desert, where she had a place that God had prepared, to be fed there for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Then a war broke out in heaven: Michael [a] and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought,
but they did not prevail, nor was their place found any more in heaven.
And the great dragon was thrown, the ancient serpent [b] called devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was thrown down to earth, and his angels were thrown along with him.
I heard a great voice in heaven saying: "Now has come salvation and the power and kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ! Because the accuser of our brothers, the one who accused them day and night before our God.
And they have overcome him because of the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony, because they did not love their lives until death.
For this, rejoice, O heavens, and those who dwell in them. Woe to the land and sea! Because the devil has come down to you and has great anger, knowing that you have little time left. "
And when the dragon saw that it had been thrown to the ground, it chased the woman who had given birth to the male child.
But two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman, to fly from the presence of the serpent, to the desert, to her place where she receives food for a time, and times and half a time.
After the woman, the serpent poured water from her mouth like a river, so that she would be swept away by the stream.
But the earth helped the woman. And the earth opened its mouth and completely swallowed the river that the dragon had thrown from its mouth.
Then the dragon was enraged against the woman, and he left to make war against the other descendants of her, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.
And he stood up on the sand of the sea [c].