And he writes to the angel of the church in Sardis: "He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says this:" I know your works, that you have a name that you live, but you are dead.
Get up and affirm the things that remain, that were about to die, because I have not found your works complete before my God.
Remember, then, what you have received and heard; save it and repent. Therefore, if you do not watch, I will come as a thief, and you will not know what time I will come upon you.
But you have a few in Sardis who have not stained their clothes, and they will walk with me dressed in white, because they are worthy.
Thus the victor will be clothed in white garments and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will recognize his name before my Father and before his angels.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Philadelphia: "The Holy One, the True One, the one who has the key of David, the one who opens and nobody closes, and closes and nobody opens, says this:
"I know your works. Look, I have put in front of you an open door that nobody can close, because you have a little power, you have kept my word and you have not denied my name.
Behold, I will hand over those in Satan's synagogue who claim to be Jews and are not, but lie; behold, I will cause them to come and fall at your feet, and know that I have loved you.
Because you have kept the word of my perseverance, I will also keep you from the hour of trial, that hour that is to come over the whole world to test those who live on earth.
I come soon; hold fast what you have, so that no one will take your crown.
To the victor I will make a column in the temple of my God, and he will never leave it again; I will write on it the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which descends from the heaven of my God, and my new name.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Laodicea: "The Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Principle of the creation of God, says this:
"I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot!
So, since you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
Because you say: 'I am rich, I have become rich and I have no need of anything'; and you don't know that you are miserable and worthy of pity, and poor, blind and naked,
I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you become rich, and white garments so that you dress and the shame of your nakedness is not manifested, and eye drops to anoint your eyes so that you can see.
I rebuke and discipline all I love; So be jealous and repent.
Behold, I am at the door and knock; If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him and he with me.
To the victor, I will grant to sit with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat with my Father on his throne.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".