After this I saw another angel come down from heaven, who had great power, and the earth was illuminated with his glory.
And he cried out in a mighty voice, saying, Great Babylon fell, fell! It has become the habitation of demons, the lair of every unclean spirit and the lair of every unclean and abhorrent bird.
For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the passion of their immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immoral acts with it, and the merchants of the earth have been enriched with the wealth of their sensuality.
And I heard another voice from heaven saying: Come out of her, my people, so that you do not share in her sins and so that you do not receive her plagues;
for their sins have piled up to heaven, and God has remembered their iniquities.
Pay her as she has paid, and repay her double according to her works; In the cup that she has prepared, prepare twice as much for her.
When she glorified herself and lived sensually, so give her torment and mourning, because she says in her heart: "I am sitting as a queen, and I am not a widow and I will never see mourning."
That is why, in one day, its plagues will come: death, mourning and hunger, and it will be burned with fire; because the Lord God who judges her is powerful.
And the kings of the earth who committed acts of immorality and lived sensuously with her will cry and lament for her when they see the smoke of her fire,
looking on from a distance because of the fear of his torment, and saying: "Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For in one hour your judgment has come."
And the merchants of the earth cry and mourn for it, because nobody buys their merchandise anymore:
shipments of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, and scarlet; all kinds of fragrant woods and all objects of ivory and all objects made of precious woods, bronze, iron and marble;
and cinnamon, aromatic spices, incense, perfume, myrrh, wine, olive oil; and flour, wheat, beasts, sheep, horses, cars, slaves and human lives.
And the fruit that you have longed for has turned away from you, and all the things that were luxurious and splendid have turned away from you, and will never find them again.
The merchants of these things who grew rich at her expense will stand afar because of the fear of their torment, crying and lamenting,
saying, "Woe, woe, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen, purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, precious stones and pearls!
because in one hour so much wealth has been razed. "And all the captains, passengers and sailors, and all who live on the sea, stood in the distance,
and when they saw the smoke of their fire they cried out, saying: "What city is similar to the great city?"
And they put dust on their heads, and they cried out, crying and wailing, saying: "Ay, ay, the great city in which all those who had ships in the sea became rich at the cost of their riches! been ravaged. "
Rejoice over her, heaven, and you also, saints, apostles and prophets, because God has pronounced judgment for you against her.
Then a mighty angel took a stone, like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying: Thus Babylon, the great city, will be thrown down with violence, and will never be found again.
And the sound of harpists, musicians, flute players and trumpeters will no longer be heard in you; Neither will any craftsman be found in you any more; no mill noise will ever be heard in you;
Lamp light will no longer shine on you; neither the voice of the groom and the bride will be heard more in you; because your merchants were the great ones of the earth, because all the nations were deceived by your sorceries.
And in it was found the blood of the prophets, of the saints, and of all who had been killed on earth.