Write to the angel of the church in Ephesus: He who has the seven stars on his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden candlesticks, says this:
I know your works, and your hard work and your patience; and that you cannot bear the bad, and you have tested those who claim to be apostles and are not, and have found them liars;
and you have suffered, and you have been patient, and you have worked hard for my name and you have not fainted.
But I have against you that you have left your first love.
Remember, therefore, where you have fallen, and repent and do the first works; because if not, I will come to you soon and I will remove your candlestick from its place, if you do not regret it.
But you have this, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
And he writes to the angel of the church in Smyrna: The first and the last, he who was dead and lived again, says this:
I know your works, and your tribulation, and your poverty (but you are rich) and the blasphemy of those who claim to be Jews and are not, but are synagogue of Satan.
Have no fear of the things that you have to suffer. Behold, the devil is going to throw some of you into prison, so that you may be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes will not receive damage from the second death.
And he wrote to the angel of the church in Pergamum: He who has the sharp two-edged sword says this:
I know your works and where you dwell: where Satan's throne is; and you retain my name and you have not denied my faith, not even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, the one who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
But I have a few things against you: that you have there those who cling to the doctrine of Balaam, the one who taught Balak to stumble before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit fornication.
So you also have those who hold fast to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which I abhor.
Repent! Because otherwise, I will soon come to you and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give to eat of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.
And he writes to the angel of the church in Thyatira: The Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire and feet similar to burnished bronze, says this:
I know your works, and your charity, and your service, and your faith and your patience, and that your last works are more than the first.
But I have a few things against you: that you tolerate that Jezebel woman, who calls herself a prophetess, teaches and induces my servants to fornicate, and to eat things offered to idols.
And I have given him time to repent of his fornication; and has not repented.
Behold, I throw her on a bed; And I commit those who commit adultery with her in great tribulation, if they do not repent of their works.
And I will punish her children to death; and all the churches will know that I am the one that search the mind and the heart; And I will give to each of you according to your own works.
But to you, and to the others who are in Thyatira, who do not have that doctrine and who have not known the depths of Satan, as they call them, I say to you: I will not impose on you another burden.
But what you have, hold it until I come.
And to him who overcomes, and will keep my works to the end, I will give power over the nations;
He will rule them with an iron rod, and they will be broken like a potter's glass, just as I also received it from my Father.
And I will give you the morning star.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.