And he writes to the angel of the church in Sardis: He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says this: I know your works, that you have a name that you live, but you are dead.
Be vigilant and strengthen the other things that are left and that are to die, because I have not found your works well finished before God.
Remember, then, what you have received and heard; and save it and repent. And if you do not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not know what time I will come upon you.
However you have a few people in Sardis who have not stained their garments and who will walk with me in white garments because they are worthy.
He who overcomes will be clothed in white robes; and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And he writes to the angel of the church in Philadelphia: These things says the Holy One, the True One, the one who has the key of David, the one who opens and no one closes, and closes and no one opens:
I know your works; behold, I have put an open door before you, which no one can close, because although you have little strength, you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
Behold, I will cause those of Satan's synagogue, those who claim to be Jews and are not, but lie, behold, I will compel them to come and worship before your feet, and know that I have loved you .
Because you have kept the word of my patience, I will also keep you from the hour of temptation that is to come throughout the world to test those who dwell on the earth.
Behold, I am coming soon; hold fast what you have so that no one will take your crown.
To him who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will never go out again; and I will write on it the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which descends from heaven, of my God, and my new name.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And he writes to the angel of the church in Laodicea: Behold, the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation, says:
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were hot or cold!
But because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
Because you say: I am rich, and I have become rich and I have no need of anything; and you do not know that you are unfortunate, and miserable, and poor, and blind and naked.
I advise you to buy from me refined gold in the fire so that you are rich, and white garments so that you dress and the shame of your nakedness is not discovered; And anoint your eyes with eye drops so that you can see.
I rebuke and discipline all I love; So be jealous, and repent.
Behold, I am at the door and knock; If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and dine with him, and he with me.
To him who overcomes, I will give to sit with me on my throne, just as I have overcome and I have sat with my Father on his throne.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.