And he showed me a river of water of life, shining like crystal, coming out of the throne of God and of the Lamb,
in the middle of the city street. And on each side of the river was the tree of life, which produces twelve kinds of fruit, bearing fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there will be no more curse; and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be there, and his servants will serve him.
They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
And there will be no more night, and they will have no need of lamp light or sunlight, because the Lord God will illuminate them, and they will reign for ever and ever.
And he said to me: These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show his servants the things that are soon to happen.
Behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy in this book.
I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
And he said to me *: Don't do that; I am your servant and your brothers the prophets and those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.
He also said to me *: Do not seal the words of the prophecy in this book, because the time is near.
May the unjust continue to do injustices, may the impure continue to be impure, may the just continue to practice justice, and may the saintly keep himself holy.
Behold, I am coming soon, and my reward is with me to reward each one according to his work.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
Blessed are those who wash their robes to qualify for the tree of life and to enter through the gates into the city.
Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices lying.
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to witness these things to the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star.
And the Spirit and the wife say: Come. And whoever hears, say: Come. And the one who is thirsty, come; and he who desires, let him drink freely of the water of life.
I testify to all who hear the words of the prophecy in this book: If anyone adds to them, God will bring upon him the plagues that are written in this book;
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part of the tree of life and of the holy city described in this book.
He who testifies of these things says: Yes, I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with everyone. Amen.