And I stood on the sand of the sea, and I saw a beast rising from the sea that had seven heads and ten horns; and on his horns he had ten diadems, and on her heads names of blasphemy.
And the beast that I saw was like a leopard, and its feet were like a bear, and its mouth, like a lion's mouth. And the dragon gave him his power, and his throne and great authority.
And I saw one of their heads as a death wound, but their mortal wound was healed; And all the earth marveled after the beast.
And they worshiped the dragon that had given authority to the beast, and worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast, and who can fight it?
He was also given a mouth that spoke great things and profanity; and he was given authority to act forty-two months.
And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and those who dwell in heaven.
And it was given to him to wage war against the saints, and to overcome them. Authority was also given to him over every tribe, and people, and tongue, and nation.
And she was worshiped by all who dwell on earth, whose names were not written in the Lamb's book of life that was slain from the beginning of the world.
If anyone has an ear, listen.
If anyone leads into captivity, he will go into captivity; if anyone kills with the sword, he will die with the sword. Here is the patience and faith of the saints.
Then I saw another beast coming up out of the ground; and it had two horns like those of a lamb, but it spoke like a dragon.
And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in her presence; and causes the earth and its dwellers to worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
He also does great signs, in such a way that he even descends fire from heaven to earth before men.
And he deceives the inhabitants of the earth with the signs that he has been granted to do in the presence of the beast, commanding the inhabitants of the earth to make an image of the beast that had the sword wound, and lived.
And it was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would speak and cause all who did not worship the image of the beast to be killed.
And he made everyone, small and large, rich and poor, free and slave, put a mark on the right hand or on the forehead;
and that no one could buy or sell, except the one who had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding count the number of the beast, for it is the number of man; And his number is six hundred sixty-six.