"Write to the angel of the church in Ephesus: He who has the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, says these things:
I know your works, your hard work and your perseverance; that you cannot bear the wicked, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles and are not, and that you have found them liars.
Also, I know that you have perseverance, that you have suffered because of my name and that you have not fainted [a].
"However, I have against you that you have left your first love.
Remember, therefore, where you have fallen from. Repent! And do the first works. Otherwise, I will come to you soon and remove your candlestick from its place, if you do not regret it.
"But you have this: that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, that I also hate.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give to eat of the tree of life that is in the midst of the paradise of God.
"Write to the angel of the church in Smyrna: The first and the last, who was dead and lived, says these things:
I know your tribulation and your poverty - although you are rich - and the blasphemy of those who claim to be Jews and are not; rather, they are Satan's synagogue.
Have no fear of the things that you have to suffer. Behold, the devil is going to throw some of you into prison to be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes will never receive harm from the second death.
"Write to the angel of the church in Pergamos: He who has the sharp two-edged sword says these things:
I know [b] where you live: where is the throne of Satan. And you retain my name and you have not denied my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
"However, I have a few things against you: that you have there some who adhere to the doctrine of Balaam [c], who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat of what was sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality.
Likewise, you also have those who adhere to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans [d],
Therefore, repent! Otherwise I will come to you soon and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give to eat of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone and on the stone a new written name, which no one knows but the one who receives it .
"Write to the angel of the church in Thyatira: The Son of God, who has his eyes as a flame of fire and his feet like burnished bronze, says these things:
I know your works, your love, your fidelity, your service and your perseverance; and that your latest works are better than the first.
"However, I have against you that you tolerate the Jezebel woman, who claims to be a prophetess, and teaches and seduces my servants to commit sexual immorality, and to eat what is sacrificed to idols.
I have given him time to repent, and he does not want to repent of his immorality.
Behold, I am putting her to bed, and those who commit adultery with her, in great tribulation, unless they repent of her works.
And I will kill her children with painful death, and all the churches will know that I am the one who searches the mind and the heart. And I will give each of you according to your works.
"But to the others in Thyatira, to those who do not have this doctrine, who have not known the profound things of Satan (as they call them), I say: I do not impose any more burdens on them.
Just hold on to what you have, until I come.
To him who overcomes and keeps my works to the end, I will give authority over the nations,
—He will guide them with an iron scepter; like a potter's glass they are broken— [e] as I also have received from my Father.
Also, I will give you the morning star.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.