And after these things I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, stopping the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth, neither on the sea nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel coming up from where the sun rises, and who had the seal of the living God; and cried out with a loud voice to the four angels, who had been given the power to harm the land and the sea,
saying: Do no harm to the land, the sea or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads.
And I heard the number of the sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from all the tribes of the children of Israel.
Of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand seals. From the tribe of Rubén, twelve thousand sealed. From the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand sealed.
From the tribe of Aser, twelve thousand seals. Of the tribe of Naftalí, twelve thousand sealed. From the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand seals.
From the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand sealed.
Of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand seals. From the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand sealed.
After these things I looked, and saw a great multitude, which no one could count, from all the nations and tribes and peoples and tongues, who stood before the throne and in the presence of the Lamb, dressed in white robes, and with palms on their hands;
and they cried out with a loud voice, saying: Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.
And all the angels were standing around the throne, and the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,
saying: Amen! Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honor, and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen!
And one of the elders answered, saying to me: Who are these who are dressed in white clothes, who are they and where have they come from?
And I said to him: Lord, you know it. And he said to me: These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation; and they have washed their clothes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
For this reason they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will spread his flag over them.
They will no longer be hungry or thirsty, and the sun will no longer fall on them or any heat,
because the Lamb that is in the middle of the throne will shepherd them and will guide them to sources of living waters; and God will wipe every tear from their eyes.