And the fifth angel sounded the trumpet, and I saw a star that fell from heaven to earth; and he was given the key to the bottomless pit.
And he opened the well of the abyss, and smoke rose from the well like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke from the well.
And locusts came out of the smoke upon the earth; and they were given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
And they were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth, or any green thing, or any tree, but only men who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
And it was given to them not to kill them, but to torment them for five months; and his torment was like a scorpion's torment when he strikes man.
And in those days men will seek death, but they will not find it; and they will wish to die, but death will flee from them.
And the appearance of the locusts was similar to horses prepared for war; and upon their heads they had like crowns of gold, and their faces were like the faces of men.
And they had hair like women's hair; and his teeth were like dandelions.
And they had breastplates like iron breastplates; and the noise of their wings was like the roar of chariots running with many horses to battle.
And they had tails similar to those of scorpions, and they had stingers in their tails; and they had power to harm men for five months.
And they have over them as king the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek, Apollion.
The first woe has passed; behold, two woes still come after this.
And the sixth angel blew the trumpet; and I heard a voice coming out from between the four horns of the golden altar that was before God,
Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet: Unleash the four angels who are bound in the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels who were prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year were released, in order to kill a third of the men.
And the number of the army of those on horseback was two hundred million. I heard their number.
And so I saw in vision the horses and their riders, who had breastplates of fire, hyacinth, and brimstone. And the heads of the horses were like the head of a lion; And from their mouth came fire, and smoke and brimstone.
By these three plagues a third of the men were killed: by the fire, and by the smoke and by the sulfur that came out of their mouth.
Because their power is in their mouth and in their tails, because their tails are like snakes, and they have heads and with them they harm.
And the rest of the men who were not killed by these plagues, did not even repent of the works of their hands, nor did they stop worshiping the demons, and the images of gold, and of silver, and of bronze, and of stone and wood, which cannot see, hear or walk;
and they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.