One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me saying: "Come here, and I will show you the condemnation of the great harlot who is sitting on many waters.
With her the kings of the earth fornicated, and those who live in the land were drunk with the wine of their fornication. "
He led me in the Spirit [a] into the desert. And I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast full of blasphemous names and having seven heads and ten horns.
The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and was adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls. In his hand he had a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of his immorality.
On his forehead was written a name, a mystery: "Babylon the great, mother of harlots and of the abominations of the earth."
I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. Seeing her, I was amazed with great amazement.
And the angel said to me: "Why are you amazed? I will explain the mystery of the woman and the beast that carries her and that has seven heads and ten horns.
The beast that you have seen was and is not, and it will rise from the abyss, and it will perish. The inhabitants of the earth, whose names have not been inscribed in the book of life since the foundation of the world, will be amazed when they see the beast that was and is not and will be.
Here is the mind that has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is sitting.
And there are seven kings: Five have fallen, one is and the other has not yet come; and when it comes, it should be left alone for a short time.
The beast that was and is not is also the eighth, and comes from the seven and goes to perdition.
The ten horns you have seen are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but take authority for an hour as kings along with the beast.
These have a single purpose, and give their power and authority to the beast.
They will make war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because he is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those who are with him are called and chosen and faithful. "
He also said to me: "The waters that you have seen where the harlot is sitting are peoples and multitudes, nations and languages.
The ten horns you have seen, and the beast [b], these will hate the harlot and leave her desolate and naked. They will eat its meats and burn it with fire;
for God has placed in your hearts the execution of your purpose, and that you have one purpose, and that you give your kingdom to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled.
The woman you have seen is the great city that has rule over the kings of the earth. "