After this, I saw four angels standing at the four ends of the earth, stopping the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow, neither on the earth nor on the sea nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel coming up from where the sun rises and who had the seal of the living God; and shouted with a loud voice to the four angels who had been granted to harm the land and the sea,
saying: Do no harm, neither to the land nor to the sea nor to the trees, until we have put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God.
And I heard the number of those who were sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from all the tribes of the children of Israel;
from the tribe of Judah twelve thousand were sealed; from the tribe of Rubén, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand; from the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar;
twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun; twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph, and twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Benjamin.
After this I looked, and saw a great multitude, which no one could count, from all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes and with palms on their hands.
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying: Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.
And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne, and they worshiped God,
saying: Amen! Blessing, glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, honor, power and strength, be to our God for ever and ever. Amen.
And one of the elders spoke saying to me: Who are they who are dressed in white robes, who are they and where did they come from?
And I answered him: My Lord, you know it. And he said to me: These are the ones who come from the great tribulation, and have washed their garments and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
So they stand before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them.
They will no longer be hungry or thirsty, nor will the sun beat them down, nor any heat,
for the Lamb in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of waters of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.