And I looked when the Lamb opened the first of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a voice of thunder: "Come!"
And I looked, and behold a white horse. He who sat on it had a bow, and a crown was given to him; and came out winning and to win.
When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living being say, "Come!"
And another horse came out, red. He who was mounted upon him was given power to take peace from the earth and to kill one another. And he was given a great sword.
When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living being say, "Come!" And I looked and behold a black horse, and the one who was riding on it had a balance in his hand.
And I heard like a voice in the midst of the four living beings, saying: "A kilo of wheat for a day's wages, and three kilos of barley for a day's wages! And do no harm to the wine or the oil".
When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living being saying, "Come!"
And I looked, and behold, a pale horse; and the one who was riding on him was called Death; and Hades followed closely. They were given power over a quarter of the earth, to kill with the sword and with hunger and pestilence, and by the wild beasts of the field.
When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God and their testimony.
And they cried out with a loud voice saying: "How long, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, do you not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on earth?".
And each of them was given a white dress; and they were told to rest a little while longer, until the number of their servants and their brothers, who were also to be killed like them, was completed.
And I looked when he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake. The sun turned black as sackcloth; the whole moon turned like blood,
and the stars of heaven fell on the earth, as a fig tree casts its late figs when it is shaken by a strong wind.
The sky was torn apart like rolled parchment, and every mountain and island was removed from its places.
The kings of the earth, the greats, the commanders, the rich, the powerful, all slaves and all free hid in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains,
and they said to the mountains and the rocks: "Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb.
Because the great day of his wrath has arrived, and who will be able to remain standing! ".