And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, because the first heaven and the first earth passed, and the sea no longer exists.
And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, descending from heaven, of God, prepared as a bride dressed for her husband.
Then I heard a great voice saying from the throne: Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and He will dwell among them and they will be his people, and God himself will be among them.
He will wipe every tear from his eyes, and there will be no more death, no more mourning, no cry, no pain, because the first things have happened.
And he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he added *: Write, because these words are faithful and true.
He also said to me: It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will freely give from the spring of the water of life.
The overcomer will inherit these things, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
But cowards, unbelievers, abominable, murderers, immoral, sorcerers, idolaters and all liars will have their inheritance in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the last seven plagues came and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.
And he led me in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down from heaven, from God,
and had the glory of God. Its brilliance was like that of a very precious stone, like a crystalline jasper stone.
It had a great and high wall with twelve doors, and at the doors twelve angels; and on them were written names, which are those of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
There were three doors to the east, three doors to the north, three doors to the south, and three doors to the west.
The city wall had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And the one who was talking to me had a golden measuring stick, to measure the city, its gates and its wall.
And the city is laid out in the shape of a square, and its length is equal to its width. And he measured the city with the rod, twelve thousand stadia; and its length, width and height are the same.
And he measured its wall, one hundred and forty-four cubits, according to human measure, which is also that of an angel.
The material of the wall was jasper, and the city was of pure gold like pure crystal.
The foundations of the city wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones: the first foundation, jasper; the second sapphire; the third, agate; the fourth, emerald;
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, Sardinian; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, hyacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst.
The twelve gates were twelve pearls; each of the doors was of a single pearl; and the city street was of pure gold, like clear glass.
And I saw no temple in it, because its temple is the Lord, the Almighty God, and the Lamb.
The city has no need of sun or moon to illuminate it, because the glory of God illuminates it, and the Lamb is its light.
And the nations will walk in its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory to it.
Its doors will never close during the day (because there will be no night there);
and they will bring to it the glory and honor of the nations;
and nothing unclean will enter it, not even the one who practices abomination and lies, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life.