And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me, saying: Come; I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who is sitting on many waters;
with her the kings of the earth committed immoral acts, and the inhabitants of the earth were drunk with the wine of their immorality.
And he led me in the Spirit to a desert; and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names, and who had seven heads and ten horns.
The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls, and she had in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the filth of her immorality,
and on his forehead was a name written, a mystery: BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And when I saw her, I was greatly amazed.
And the angel said to me: Why have you been amazed? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and the beast that carries her, the one with the seven heads and the ten horns.
The beast that you saw, was and is not, and is about to rise from the abyss and go to destruction. And the inhabitants of the earth, whose names have not been written in the book of life since the foundation of the world, will be amazed to see the beast that was and is not, and that will come.
Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits;
and they are seven kings; five have fallen, one is and the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he needs to stay a little while.
And the beast that was and is not, is the eighth king, and is one of the seven and goes to destruction.
And the ten horns you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but who for one hour receive authority as kings with the beast.
These have the same purpose, and will give their power and authority to the beast.
These will fight against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those who are with Him are called, chosen and faithful.
And he said to me *: The waters that you saw where the harlot sits are peoples, multitudes, nations and languages.
And the ten horns that you saw and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will leave her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh and burn her with fire;
for God has placed in their hearts the execution of His purpose: that they have a unanimous purpose, and give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled.
And the woman you saw is the great city, which reigns over the kings of the earth.