Then I heard a great voice from the temple saying to the seven angels: "Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God on the earth."
He was the first angel and poured his cup on the earth. And there was a painful and evil sore upon the men who bore the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image.
The second angel poured out his cup on the sea. And it became blood as of dead. And every living thing that was in the sea died.
The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and on the sources of the waters, and they became blood.
I heard the angel of the waters say: "You are just who you are and who were, the Holy One, because you have judged these things.
Because they shed the blood of the saints and the prophets, you have also given them blood to drink, for they deserve it. "
And I heard the altar say, "Truly, O Lord Almighty God, your judgments are true and just!"
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was given to him to burn men with fire.
Men were burned with the intense heat and blasphemed the name of the God who has authority over these plagues, but they did not repent to give him glory.
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom was turned into darkness. The tongues of pain were bitten
and they blasphemed the God of heaven for their pain and sores, but they did not repent of their works.
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its waters dried up to prepare the way for the kings of the East.
I saw three impure frog-like spirits come out of the dragon's mouth and out of the beast's mouth and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
For they are spirits of demons that make signs, which go out to the kings of the entire inhabited world to gather them together for the battle of the great day of Almighty God.
"Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches over and guards his garments so that he does not walk naked and see their shame."
And he gathered them together in the place called in Hebrew Armageddon [a].
The seventh angel poured his cup into the air. And a great voice came out of the sanctuary from the throne, saying: "It is done!"
Then there was lightning and thunder and thunder, and there was a great earthquake. This great earthquake was as strong as it had never happened since man existed on earth.
The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And great Babylon was remembered before God, to give her of the cup of wine the fury of her wrath.
Every island fled, and the mountains were found no more.
And from the sky, huge hail fell, weighing thirty-four kilos. And men blasphemed God for the hail plague, because the plague was extremely great.