And I saw a new heaven, and a new earth, because the first heaven and the first earth had ceased to be, and the sea no longer existed.
And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, descending from heaven, of God, arranged as a bride dressed for her boyfriend.
And I heard a great voice from heaven saying: Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell with them; and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them and will be their God.
And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and there will be no more death, no more crying, no crying or pain, because the first things are no longer.
And he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me: Write, because these words are faithful and true.
And he said to me: It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give freely of the spring of the water of life.
He who overcomes will inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he will be my son.
But cowards and unbelievers, abominable and murderous, fornicators and sorcerers, and idolaters and all liars will have their part in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the seven last plagues came to me and spoke to me, saying: Come here, I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.
And he led me in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the great city, holy Jerusalem, coming down from heaven, from God,
and had the glory of God; and its brilliance was like a precious stone, like a jasper stone, transparent like glass.
And it had a great and high wall with twelve doors; and at the gates twelve angels, and names written on them, which are those of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
To the east three doors; to the north three doors; to the south three doors; to the west three doors.
And the city wall had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he who spoke to me had a golden reed to measure the city, and its gates and its wall.
And the city is laid out in the shape of a square, and its length is equal to its width; And he measured the city with the reed: twelve thousand stadia; the length, and the height and width of it are equal.
And he measured its wall: one hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of man, which was that of the angel.
And the material of its wall was jasper; but the city was of pure gold, like pure crystal.
And the foundations of the city wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire; the third of agate, the fourth of emerald,
the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh hyacinth, and the twelfth amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each of the doors was a pearl. And the city street was pure gold, like clear glass.
And I did not see a temple there, because the Lord Almighty God and the Lamb are her temple.
And the city has no need of sun or moon that shines in it, because the glory of God illuminates it and the Lamb is its light.
And the nations that have been saved will walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory and honor to it.
And its doors will never be closed during the day, because there will be no night there.
And they will bring to it the glory and honor of the nations.
No unclean thing shall enter into it, nor anyone who does abomination and lies, but only those who are inscribed in the Lamb's book of life.