And I saw an angel come down from heaven, who had the key to the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
And he caught the dragon, the ancient serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years;
And he threw him into the abyss, and shut him up, and put a seal upon him, that he should no longer deceive the nations, until the thousand years were ended. And after this, it should be unleashed for a little while.
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and authority was given to them to judge; and I saw the souls of those beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and the word of God, those who had not worshiped the beast or his image, and who did not receive the mark on their foreheads or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
But the other dead did not live again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; the second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him a thousand years.
And when the thousand years are up, Satan will be released from his prison,
and he will go out to deceive the nations that are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, in order to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
And they went up over the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city; And fire came down from heaven from God and devoured them.
And the devil who was deceiving them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet were; and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled; And nowhere was found for them.
And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged for the things that were written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it; and death and hell gave up the dead in them; and each one was judged according to his works.
And death and hell were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.