Then a reed was given to me, like a measuring stick, and I was told: "Arise and measure the temple of God and the altar, and those who worship in it.
And set aside the outer court of the temple. And don't measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample on the holy city for forty-two months.
I will send my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, wearing sackcloth.
They are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks that are before the God of the earth [a].
If someone wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies. When someone wants to hurt them, they have to die this way.
They have power to shut heaven, so that rain does not fall during the days of their prophecy; and they have power over the waters, to turn them into blood and to hurt the earth with all plague, as many times as they want.
When they have completed their testimony, the beast that rises from the abyss will make war against them, overcome them and kill them.
And their corpses will be in the square of the great city that symbolically [b] is called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord [c] was also crucified.
And for three and a half days, the people of the towns and of the races and of the languages ​​and of the nations look at their corpses; and they do not allow their corpses to be placed in graves.
And the inhabitants of the earth rejoice over them and rejoice. And they will send gifts to each other, because these two prophets had been a torment to the inhabitants of the earth.
After the three and a half days the breath of life sent by God entered them, and they rose to their feet. And great fear fell upon those who saw them.
They heard a great voice from heaven saying to them: "Come up here!" And they went up to heaven in the cloud, and their enemies saw them.
And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand men died from the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and glorified the God of heaven.
The second woe has passed. Behold the third woe is coming soon.
The seventh angel blew the trumpet. And in heaven great voices were heard saying: "The kingdom of the world has become our Lord's and His Christ's. He will reign forever and ever."
And the twenty-four elders, who were sitting on their thrones before God, fell down on their faces and worshiped God
saying: "We thank you, Lord God Almighty, that you are and that you were [d], because you have assumed your great power and you reign.
The nations were enraged, but your anger and the time has come to judge the dead, and to give their reward to your servants the prophets and to the saints and to those who fear your name, both small and great, and of destroy those who destroy the earth. "
And the temple of God which is in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was made visible in his temple. Then lightning flashed, voices, thunder, an earthquake, and a heavy hail.