And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and out, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a mighty angel crying out with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the book and loosen its seals?
And no one, neither in heaven nor on earth nor under the earth, could open the book or look at its contents.
And I was crying a lot, because no one had been found worthy to open the book or look at its contents.
Then one of the elders said to me *: Don't cry; look, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome to open the book and its seven seals.
I looked, and saw between the throne (with the four living creatures) and the elders, a Lamb, standing, as if slain, who had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent throughout the earth.
And he came, and took the book from the right hand of him who sat on the throne.
When he took the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb; each had a harp and gold bowls filled with incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sang * a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the book and open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you bought for God people of every tribe, language, people and nation.
And you have made them a kingdom and priests for our God; and they will reign over the earth.
And I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living beings and of the elders; and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands,
who said with a loud voice: The Lamb that was slain worthy is to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory and praise.
And to every created thing that is in heaven, on the earth, under the earth and in the sea, and all the things that are in them, I heard them say: To the one who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, be the praise, honor, glory and dominion for ever and ever.
And the four living beings said: Amen. And the elders fell down and worshiped.