I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne, a book [a] written inside and out, sealed with seven seals.
I also saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the book and loose its seals?"
But no one, neither in heaven nor on earth nor under the earth, could open the book; not even look at it.
And I was crying a lot, because no one was found worthy to open the book [b]; not even looking at it.
And one of the elders said to me, "Do not cry. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome to open the book and its seven seals."
And in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures and the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as if slain. It had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent to all the earth.
He went and took the book from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne.
When he took the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each had a harp and golden goblets filled with incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
They sang a new song, saying: "You are worthy to take the book and open its seals! Because you were slain and with your blood you have redeemed for God people [c] of every race, language, people and nation.
You have made them a kingdom and priests for our God, and they will reign [d] on the earth. "
And I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living beings and the elders. The number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands.
And they said with a loud voice: "Worthy is the Lamb, who was slain, to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory and praise."
And I heard every creature that is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all the things that are in them, saying: "To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and honor and glory and power for ever and ever. "
The four living beings said: "Amen!" And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshiped [e].