And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four living beings say with a voice of thunder: Come and see!
And I looked, and I saw a white horse; and the rider had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to overcome.
And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living being, saying: Come and see!
And another horse came out, red; And to him who rode it, power was given to take peace from the earth and to kill one another; and a great sword was given to him.
And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living being say: Come and see! And I looked, and behold a black horse; and the rider had a scale in hand.
And I heard a voice from among the four living creatures, saying: Two measures of wheat for a denarius, and six measures of barley for a denarius; but do not damage the wine or the oil.
And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living being, saying: Come and see!
And I looked, and I saw a yellow horse; and he who rode it was called Death, and Hades followed him; and power was given to them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with the sword, with hunger, with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God and because of the testimony they had.
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying: How long, O Lord, holy and true, will it take you to judge and avenge our blood on those who live on earth?
And each was given white robes; and they were told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and brothers, who were also to be killed like them, was completed.
And I looked when he opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great earthquake; and the sun turned black as sackcloth, and the moon turned all like blood;
and the stars of heaven fell on the earth, as the fig tree drops its green figs when it is shaken by a strong wind.
And the sky withdrew like a scroll that is rolled up; and every mountain and island was removed from its places.
And the kings of the earth, and the great ones, the rich, the captains, the powerful, and all slaves and all free, hid in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains;
And they said to the mountains and the rocks: Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb,
for the great day of his wrath has come, and who can stand?