The fifth angel blew the trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen from heaven to earth, and was given the key to the bottomless pit.
When he opened the pit of the abyss, smoke rose from the pit like smoke from a great furnace, and the sun and air were obscured by the smoke from the pit.
And locusts came out of the smoke upon the earth, and they were given power as the scorpions of the earth have power.
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth, or any green thing, or any tree, but only to men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
They were not allowed to kill anyone, but torment them for five months; and his torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man.
In those days men will seek death and will not find it; and they will long to die, and death will flee from them.
And the appearance of the locusts was similar to that of horses prepared for battle, and on their heads they had like crowns that looked like gold, and their faces were like human faces.
They had hair like women's hair, and their teeth were like lions.
They also had breastplates like iron breastplates; and the noise of their wings was like the roar of chariots, of many horses that go into battle.
They have scorpion-like tails, and stingers; and in its tails is its power to harm men for five months.
They have as their king the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek is called Apollion.
The first woe has passed; behold, two woes still come after these things.
The sixth angel blew the trumpet, and I heard a voice come out of the four horns of the golden altar before God,
And he said to the sixth angel who had the trumpet: Release the four angels who are tied by the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels who had been prepared for the hour, day, month, and year were unleashed to kill one third of humanity.
And the number of the horsemen's armies was two hundred million; I heard your number.
And this is how I saw in the vision the horses and their riders: the riders had breastplates the color of fire, hyacinth and sulfur; the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and fire, smoke, and brimstone came out of their mouths.
A third of humanity was killed by these three plagues: by the fire, smoke, and sulfur that came out of their mouths.
Because the power of the horses is in their mouth and in their tails; because their tails are similar to snakes, they have heads and with them they hurt.
And the rest of humanity, those who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor stopped worshiping demons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood, that they cannot see or hear or walk;
and they did not repent of their murders or their sorceries or their immorality or their robberies.