Then he showed me a river of water of life, shining like crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the middle of the avenue of the city, and on either side of the river, is the tree of life, which produces twelve fruits, bearing fruit each month. The leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
There will be no more curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him.
They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
There will be no more night, nor do they need a lamp light, nor sunlight; for the Lord God will shine upon them, and they will reign for ever and ever.
He also told me: "These words are faithful and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets [a], has sent his angel to show his servants the things that have to happen soon.
Behold, I am coming soon! Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. "
I, John, am the one who has heard and seen these things. When I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me.
And he said to me: "Look, don't do it! For I am a servant to you and to your brothers the prophets and to those who keep the words of this book. Worship God!"
And he said to me: "Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, because the time is near.
He who is unjust, do still injustice. He who is impure is still impure. He who is just, do justice still, and he who is holy, sanctify yourself still. "
"Behold, I am coming soon, and my reward with me, to pay each one according to his works.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. "
Blessed are those who wash their robes [b], that they may be entitled to the tree of life and that they may enter the city through the gates.
But outside will be the dogs, the sorcerers, those who commit sexual immoralities, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices lying.
"I, Jesus, have sent my angel to bear witness to you of these things for the churches. I am the root and the lineage of David, the shining star of the morning."
The Spirit and the wife say, "Come!" He who hears say, "Come!" He who is thirsty, come. Whoever wants, take the water of life for free.
I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy in this book: If anyone adds to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book;
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part of the tree [c] of life and of the holy city, of which it has been written in this book.
He who testifies to these things says, "Yes, I am coming soon!" Amen! Come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of our Lord Jesus be with everyone [d].