"Write to the angel of the church in Sardis: He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says these things: I know your works, that you have a name that you live, but you are dead.
Be vigilant and strengthen the things that remain and are about to die, because I have not found that your works have been finished before God.
Remember, then, what you have received and heard. Save it and repent. If you are not vigilant, I will come as a thief; you will never know what time I will come to you.
"However, you have a few people in Sardis who have not stained their clothes and who will walk with me in white clothes, because they are worthy.
In this way, he who overcomes will be clothed in white clothing; and I will never erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
"Write to the angel of the church in Philadelphia: The Holy and True One, the one who has the key of David, the one who opens and nobody closes, and closes and nobody opens [a], says these things:
I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one can shut; because you have a little power and you have kept my word and you have not denied my name.
Behold, I will give you some of Satan's synagogue, of those who claim to be Jews and are not, but lie. Behold, I will cause them to come and fall before your feet, and they will know that I have loved you.
Because you kept the word of my patience, I will also keep you at the hour of the test that is to come upon all the inhabited world, to test the inhabitants of the earth.
"I am coming soon. Hold onto what you have so that no one will take your crown.
To him who overcomes, I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will never go outside. And I will write on it the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God — the new Jerusalem that comes down from heaven, sent by my God — and my new name.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
"Write to the angel of the church in Laodicea: Amen, the faithful and true witness, the origin of God's creation, says these things:
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were hot or cold!
So, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I am about to vomit you out of my mouth.
Since you say: 'I am rich; I have become rich and I have no need ', and you do not know that you are miserable, miserable, poor, blind and naked,
I advise you to buy from me gold refined by the fire so that you become rich, and white garments so that you dress and the shame of your nakedness is not discovered, and eye drops to anoint your eyes so that you see.
"I rebuke and discipline all I love [b]. So be jealous and repent.
Behold, I am at the door and knock; If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with me.
To him who overcomes, I will give him to sit with me on my throne; just as I too have overcome and I have sat with my Father on his throne.
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."
