If, then, you have been raised with Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Set your sights on things above, not on things on earth.
Because you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
Put to death, therefore, the earthly in your members: fornication, impurity, lustful passions, bad desires and avarice, which is idolatry;
things for which the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
In which you also walked in another time when you lived in them.
But now, you also leave all these things: anger, anger, malice, slander, profanity from your mouth.
Don't lie to each other, having stripped the old man of his deeds,
and having clothed yourselves with the new man, who is renewed to full knowledge, according to the image of the one who created him;
where there is no Greek or Jew, circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian or Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all, and in all.
Put on, then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, of tender mercy, of kindness, of humility, of meekness, of patience;
enduring one another, and forgiving one another if one has a complaint from the other; As Christ forgave you, so do you also.
And over all these things wear charity, which is the link of perfection.
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you were also called in one body; and be grateful.
The word of Christ dwells in abundance in you, teaching and exhorting each other in all wisdom with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with gratitude in your hearts to the Lord.
And whatever you do, be it in word, or in fact, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Married, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and don't be harsh on them.
Children, obey your parents in everything, because this pleases the Lord.
Parents, do not provoke your children to anger, lest they become discouraged.
Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything, not serving the eye, like those who please men, but with simplicity of heart, fearing God.
And whatever you do, do it from the heart, as for the Lord, and not for men,
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of inheritance, because you serve Christ the Lord.
But he who does injustice will pay for the injustice he has committed, because there is no respect for people.