So I want you to know how big a conflict I have for you, for those of Laodicea and for all those who have never seen me personally.
so that united in love, their hearts may be revived until they achieve all the wealth of the full certainty of understanding, to know the mystery of God [a]; that is, Christ Himself.
In it are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
I say this so that nobody will deceive you with false persuasive arguments.
Well, although I am absent in the body, nevertheless, in spirit I am with you, rejoicing and looking at your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ.
Therefore, just as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him,
firmly rooted and built in him, and confirmed by faith as they have been taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
See that no one takes you captive through philosophies and vain subtleties, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world and not according to Christ.
For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily;
and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and authority.
In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, by stripping you of the sinful fleshly body through the circumcision that comes from Christ.
They were buried together with him at baptism, in which they were also raised together with him through faith in the power of God who raised him from the dead.
While you were dead in crimes and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God gave you life together with him, forgiving us of all crimes.
He annulled the act that was against us, which was contrary to us by his decrees, and has removed it from the middle by nailing it to his cross.
He also stripped principalities and authorities, and exhibited them as a public spectacle having triumphed over them on the cross.
Therefore, let no one judge you on matters of food or drink, or on holidays, new moons, or Saturdays.
All this is only a shadow of the future, but the reality belongs to Christ.
Let no one deprive you of your prize by pretending humility and worship of angels, flaunting what you have seen [b], vainly puffed up by your carnal mind,
and not clinging to the head of which the whole body, nourished and united by joints and ligaments, grows with the growth that God gives.
Since your death with Christ separated you from the elemental principles of the world, why, as if you still lived in the world, do you submit to ordinances such as:
"Don't use or like or touch"?
Such things are destined to perish with use as they are according to the commandments and doctrines of men.
In fact, such practices have a reputation for being wise in a certain religiosity, in humiliation and in harsh treatment of the body, but they have no value against sensuality.