Since you, therefore, have been raised with Christ, seek the things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Set your mind on things above, not on things on earth;
because they have died, and their life is hidden with Christ in God.
And when Christ is revealed, your life, then you also will be revealed with him in glory.
Therefore, put to death the earthly in your members: sexual immorality, impurity, low passions, bad desires and avarice, which is idolatry.
Because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the rebels.
In them you also walked in another time when you lived among them.
But now, stop all these things too: anger, anger, malice, blasphemy and rude words from your mouth.
Don't lie to each other; because they have shed the old man with his practices
and they have put on the new one, which is renewed for a full knowledge according to the image of the one who created it.
Here there is no Greek or Jew, circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian or Scythian, slave or free; but that Christ is everything and in everyone.
Therefore — as God's chosen ones, saints and loved ones — clothe yourselves with deep compassion, kindness, humility, meekness and patience;
enduring each other and forgiving each other, when someone has a complaint about the other. As the Lord forgave you, so do you also.
But over all these things, dress in love, which is the perfect bond.
And the peace of Christ rule in your heart, for you were called in one body, and be grateful.
The word of Christ dwells abundantly in you, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing gracefully to God in your heart.
And whatever you do, be it in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Wives, be subject to your husband as is fitting in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wife and do not be bitter against her.
Children, obey your parents in everything because this is pleasant in the Lord.
Parents, don't irritate your children so they don't get discouraged.
Servants, obey your human masters in everything; not serving only when you are looking at them, like those who please men, but with simplicity of heart, fearing God.
And whatever you do, do it in good spirits as for the Lord and not for men,
knowing that from the Lord they will receive the reward of inheritance. To Christ the Lord they serve!
But the one who commits injustice will receive the injustice that he does because there is no distinction of persons.