Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and brother Timothy,
To the holy and faithful brothers in Christ who are in Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
We thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, always praying for you;
because we have heard of their faith in Christ Jesus and their love for all the saints,
because of the hope reserved for you in heaven, of which you have heard in the gospel word of truth
that has reached them. And just as you are bearing fruit and growing throughout the world, the same is also true of you from the day you truly heard and understood the grace of God.
just as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf.
He has also informed us of your love in the Spirit.
For this reason we too, from the day we heard it, do not stop praying for you and praying that you are filled with the knowledge of your will in all wisdom and full spiritual understanding,
that they may walk worthy of the Lord in order to please Him in everything; so that they bear fruit in every good work and grow in the knowledge of God;
and that they be strengthened with all power, according to their glorious power, for all perseverance and patience.
With joy we thank the Father who [b] made them fit to participate in the inheritance of the saints in light.
He has delivered us from the authority of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of his beloved Son,
in whom we have redemption [c], the forgiveness of sins.
He is the image of the invisible God; the firstborn of all creation
for in him were created all things that are in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, be they thrones, dominions, principalities or authorities. Everything was created through him and for him.
He precedes all things, and in him all things subsist.
And besides, he is the head of the body that is the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead so that in everything he is preeminent;
because the Father was pleased that all fullness should dwell in him
and through him, to reconcile with himself all things, both on earth and in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross.
You too, although you were once set apart and were enemies because your mind was engaged in evil deeds, now you have reconciled
in his physical body through death to present them holy, unblemished and blameless before him;
inasmuch as they remain founded and firm in the faith, without being removed from the hope of the gospel that they have heard, which has been preached in all creation under heaven. From this gospel I, Paul, became a minister.
Now I rejoice in what I suffer for you, and I complete in my own flesh what is lacking in the tribulations of Christ in favor of his body, which is the church.
From her I became a minister according to the divine office that God gave me in your favor, to fully fulfill the word of God:
the mystery of God that had been hidden for centuries and generations, but has now been revealed to his saints.
To these, God wanted to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the nations, which is: Christ in you, the hope of glory.
We proclaim him, admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom, so that we may present every perfect man in Christ Jesus.
For this reason I work, striving according to its power that works powerfully in me.