Because I want you to know what a great fight I have for you and for those who are in Laodicea, and for all those who have not seen me in person,
so that their hearts are encouraged, and united in love, they reach all the riches that come from a full assurance of understanding, resulting in a true knowledge of the mystery of God, that is, of Christ,
in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
I say this so that nobody deceives you with persuasive reasoning.
For although I am absent in the body, nevertheless I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good discipline and the stability of your faith in Christ.
Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him;
firmly rooted and built up in Him and confirmed in your faith, just as you were instructed, overflowing with gratitude.
See that no one makes you captive through his philosophy and vain subtleties, according to the tradition of men, according to the elemental principles of the world and not according to Christ.
Because all the fullness of Deity resides bodily in Him,
and you have been made complete in Him, who is the head over all power and authority;
in him you were also circumcised with a circumcision not made by hands, by removing the body from the flesh through the circumcision of Christ;
having been buried with Him in baptism, in which you have also been raised with Him by faith in the action of the power of God, who raised Him from the dead.
And when you were dead in your crimes and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He gave you life together with Him, having forgiven us all crimes,
having canceled the debt document that consisted of decrees against us and that was adverse to us, and has removed it from the middle, nailing it to the cross.
And having stripped the powers and authorities, He made them a public spectacle, triumphing over them through Him.
Therefore let no one be your judge with regard to food or drink, or as to the feast day, or new moon, or Sabbath day;
things that are only a shadow of what is to come, but the body belongs to Christ.
Let no one let you down from your prize by delighting in self-abasement and angel worship, relying on the visions he has seen, puffed up without cause by his carnal mind,
but not clinging to the Head, from which the whole body, nourished and united by the joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is of God.
If you have died with Christ to the elemental principles of the world, why, as if you still lived in the world, do you submit to precepts such as:
don't manipulate, don't like, don't touch
(all of which refer to things destined to perish with use), according to the precepts and teachings of men?
Such things have the truth, the appearance of wisdom in a human religion, in the humiliation of oneself and in the severe treatment of the body, but they have no value against the appetites of the flesh.