Because I want you to know how great a fight I have for you, and for those in Laodicea, and for all those who have never seen my face in person;
so that their hearts may be comforted, united in love, until they reach all the riches of full understanding to know the mystery of God, the Father, and of Christ,
in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
And I say this, so that nobody deceives you with persuasive words.
For although I am absent in body, nevertheless, in spirit I am with you, rejoicing and looking at your good order, and the firmness of your faith in Christ.
Therefore, in the way that you have received the Lord Jesus Christ, walk in him,
rooted and built on it, and confirmed in the faith, as you have been taught, growing in it with thanksgiving.
See that no one deceives you by means of philosophies and vain subtleties, according to the traditions of men, according to the rudiments of the world, and not according to Christ.
Because in him all the fullness of divinity dwells bodily,
and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power.
In him also you were circumcised with circumcision not made by hands, by dispossessing yourself of the sinful body of the flesh through the circumcision of Christ;
buried together with him at baptism, in which you also rose with him, through faith in the power of God who raised him from the dead.
And you, being dead in sins and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, he quickened together with him, forgiving you of all sins,
annulling the act of the decrees that were against us that was contrary to us, removing it from the middle and nailing it to the cross,
and stripping principalities and powers, he exhibited them in public, triumphing over them on the cross.
Therefore, let no one judge you in food, or in drink, or with regard to feast days, or new moon, or Sabbath days,
which is a shadow of what is to come; but the body is of Christ.
Nobody deprives you of your prize, affecting humility and worship of angels, meddling in what you have not seen, vainly swollen by your own carnal mind,
and not grasping the Head, of which the whole body, fed and united by ties and joints, grows with the growth that God gives.
For if you have died with Christ in regard to the rudiments of the world, why, as if you lived in the world, do you submit to precepts
such as: Do not use or comma or touch
(all of which are things destined to perish with the use itself), according to commandments and doctrines of men?
Such things indeed have a certain reputation for wisdom in voluntary worship, and in humility, and in the harsh treatment of the body, but have no value against the appetites of the flesh.