Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Timothy,
To the holy and faithful brothers in Christ who are in Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
We thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, always praying for you,
hearing about your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the saints,
because of the hope reserved for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of truth, the gospel
that has come down to you. Just as it is constantly bearing fruit and growing throughout the world, so it has been doing so in you, from the day you heard and understood the grace of God in truth;
just as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved servant, who is a faithful servant of Christ on our behalf,
which also informed us about your love in the Spirit.
For this reason, we too, from the day we took them over, have not stopped praying for you and praying that you are filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
that you may walk worthy of the Lord, pleasing him in everything, bearing fruit in every good work and growing in the knowledge of God;
strengthened with all power according to the power of his glory, to obtain all perseverance and patience, with joy
giving thanks to the Father who has enabled us to share the inheritance of the saints in light.
Because He delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,
in whom we have redemption: forgiveness of sins.
He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
For in Him all things were created, both in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible; be they thrones or dominions or powers or authorities; everything has been created through him and for him.
And He is before all things, and in Him all things remain.
He is also the head of the body that is the church; and He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that He may have primacy in everything.
For the Father was pleased that all the fullness should dwell in Him,
and through Him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through Him, I repeat, whether they are on earth or in heaven.
And although you were far away and you were hostile, busy in bad works,
However, now He has reconciled you in his body of flesh, through his death, in order to present you holy, unblemished and blameless before Him,
if in truth you remain in the faith well grounded and constant, without moving from the hope of the gospel that you have heard, which was proclaimed to all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, was made a minister.
Now I rejoice in my sufferings for you, and in my flesh, completing what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ, I do my part for his body, which is the church,
of which I was made a minister according to the administration of God that was given to me for your benefit, in order to carry out the preaching of the word of God,
that is, the mystery that has been hidden from centuries and past generations, but that has now been manifested to its saints,
To whom God wanted to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
To Him we proclaim, admonishing all men, and teaching all men with all wisdom, in order to present every perfect man in Christ.
And to this end I also work, striving according to its power that works powerfully in me.