If, then, you have been raised with Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Set your sights on things above, not on things on earth.
Because you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ our life is manifested, then you too will be manifested with Him in glory.
Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to fornication, impurity, passions, bad desires and greed, which is idolatry.
For the wrath of God will come upon the children of disobedience because of these things,
in which you also walked in another time when you lived in them.
But now discard all these things too: anger, anger, malice, slander, foul language from your mouth.
Do not lie to each other, since you have cast off the old man with his bad habits,
and you have put on the new man, who is renewing himself towards a true knowledge, according to the image of the one who created him;
a renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jewish, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all, and in all.
Then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with tender compassion, kindness, humility, meekness and patience;
enduring each other and forgiving each other, if one has a complaint against another; As Christ forgave you, so do you also.
And above all these things, clothe yourselves with love, which is the bond of unity.
And may the peace of Christ reign in your hearts, to which you were truly called in one body; and be grateful.
May the word of Christ dwell in you abundantly, with all wisdom teaching and admonishing each other with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs, singing to God with thanksgiving in your hearts.
And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through Him to God the Father.
Women, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives and don't be harsh on them.
Children, be obedient to your parents in everything, because this is pleasing to the Lord.
Parents, do not exasperate your children, lest they become discouraged.
Servants, obey your masters on earth in everything, not to be seen, like those who want to please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.
And whatever you do, do it from the heart, as for the Lord and not for men,
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of inheritance. It is Christ the Lord whom you serve.
Because he who proceeds with injustice will suffer the consequences of the evil he has committed, and that, without respect of persons.
