Some General Recommendations
It is recommended that vegetables be added to foods at least once a day, such as spinach, chard, purslane, chelites, or carrots.
The usual condiments such as: tomato, garlic, onion and chili will be used daily.
Sauces should be consumed, preferably, raw.
At least three times a week, the consumption of fruit is recommended, preferably banana or the cheapest of the season, such as guava, papaya and melon.
The younger child should be given a glass of milk four times a week.
Otherwise, children should consume the same diet as the rest of the family.
Fresh food should be carefully washed before consumption.
All family members should wash their hands before each meal.
Food should be protected from contact with insects and rodents.
If the family has financial resources above the minimum wage, it is advisable to give the children a glass of milk and include a plate with food of animal origin and a fruit once every day.
This diet meets all the daily nutritional needs of each of the family members.
Measuring Spoons
There are two measuring spoon sizes, the soup spoon and the dessert spoon
When the recipe calls for a tablespoon or a teaspoon, the appropriate one should be filled to the bottom.
When measuring ingredients for making breads or cakes,
measurements must be exact. They should be neither more nor less than what is indicated.
Measuring Cups
There are some special cups that are used as measures for cooking.
These cups are whole when the content (what you want to measure) reaches the edge.
If the content of a cup is divided into 2 equal parts, each part will be 1/2 cup.
If divided into 4 equal parts, each part is 1/4 cup.
How to bake a cake
There is a good and simple way to bake sweet bread or cake.
It is not necessary to have an oven to make cakes, if they are made as indicated in this book; only a large frying pan with lid is required.
When the cake ingredients are already mixed, grease the pan with oil or shortening, and then pour the mixture into the pan.
Cover the pan with the lid.
Then put it on the comal in the fire.
With a spoon, put some burning coals on the lid of the pan.
Few are needed, because if the comal and the coals are very hot, the cake will burn
In this way you can bake any kind of cake you want.
Orange cake
In a bowl, mix:
It is left while the cake mixture is being prepared.
In another bowl mix:
In another looming bowl:
Then stir well well,
but you don't have to add the orange juice and sugar because first you have to bake the cake and when you take the cake out of the heat
the orange juice is rubbed and the sugar is ready.
if there is no milk, you can use water
cup of mashed banana
Put the contents of the two bowls together and mix well.
When everything is ready, a mold or frying pan is smeared with butter and the cake is thrown there to cook it.
Put the contents of the two bowls together and mix well.
When everything is ready, a mold or frying pan is smeared with butter and the cake is thrown there to cook it.
Mix all ingredients well.
Put it in a greased pan.
Put 4 sliced ​​apples on top of the cake and cook according to the instructions on page 12.
Combine flour, baking powder (Royal), sugar and salt.
Add the egg and water and mix well.
Grease a frying pan and cook according to the instructions on page 12.
Cornbread
cups nixtamal dough
Combine the dough and butter or oil.
Add the egg and beat well.
Add the rest of the ingredients and mix them.
Put this mixture in a pan
and cook it according to the instructions on page 12.
Mix flour, baking powder (Royal) and salt.
Mix them with the butter or the oil and the milk or the water.
Grease a pan and heat it.
Pour a few tablespoons of the mixture into the pan. Let cook until golden brown on one side.
When they are golden, turn them over.
Put a lid on the pan. Occasionally you should see if the buns are already there, and when they are cooked, you have to remove the pan from the fire.
Yeast Bread
It is necessary to bake the yeast bread in a large oven.
This part of the book explains how to do it.
Needed:
Put the dough in the large pot and spread a little oil or butter on top of the dough. Cover the pot with a cloth and wait until the dough rises. It will take approximately two hours.
medium tomatoes
sprig of oregano
Fry the noodle in the butter until golden.
Grind the tomato, garlic and onion and fry them.
Add a liter of water with the salt to the sauce and leave it until it starts to boil.
Add the noodle and a sprig of oregano.
Let it boil until the noodle is cooked.
Chicken soup
chile tepe to taste
salt to taste
Grind the onion, garlic, tomato and hot pepper and add them to the liquid.
If desired, add half a cup of rice and a tablespoon of chicken broth.
Let it boil for an hour.
medium potatoes
salt and pepper to taste
Peel the potatoes and cut them into strips.
Chop the onion and together with the potatoes, cover them with water, bringing them to a boil.
Nu ja ni chihyo vaha tɨcuɨtɨ un ti complaha jnanu. Yucan na ti chuhun yo lechu un nuu nu cuni yo
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Peel and cut the chayotes into four equal parts.
Cover with salted water and bring to a boil.
Grind the rest of the ingredients and stir well.
Then add them to the chayotes and let them cook until smooth.
cold tortillas cut into strips
tablespoon chopped onion
roasted poblano peppers, deveined and cut into slices
cup tomato puree
minced garlic clove
Fry the tortillas in very hot oil.
Then brown the onion and garlic in 4 tablespoons of oil or butter.
Add the tomato puree and fry for a few minutes.
Add the water that has the chicken broth with the epazote and simmer for 10 minutes.
Add the chili slices.
Put the fried tortillas on a plate and pour the broth over it.
tortilla
Cut the tortillas into squares, heat the butter in the saucepan and pour the tortilla squares until golden.
Slice the garlic and onion and put them in the saucepan.
Grind the tomato, salt, chili and epazote and add them to the casserole.
Add the golden tortillas.
Fry them in the butter. Stir constantly until sauce thickens.
Serve the sauce with chicken or pork.
lightly fried tortillas
fried eggs in butter
Chop the tomatoes and onion.
In a frying pan, put the tablespoon of butter.
When it is very hot, put on the chili slices.
Add the tomatoes and let them season, with salt to taste
Place the tortillas on a plate and the eggs on top.
Bathe in the hot sauce.
In a frying pan or pot, fry the cabbage in the butter or oil until it is a little golden.
Add the water and salt.
Milk in a hot pot. Add cabbage and salt.
Fry the onion, zucchini and slices in the butter or oil.
Gradually add the cornmeal and broth, stirring constantly so that lumps do not form.
ripe avocados
tablespoon lemon juice (if any)
Peel the avocados and mash them together with the tomato.
Grind the onion and chili and add them.
Add lemon juice if you have it.
Mix well until you have a smooth paste.
Sweet Bananas
Grease a pan or casserole with oil or butter.
Put the bananas in the pan.
Mix the oil or butter, the brown sugar or sugar and the water, and pour it over the bananas.
Combine all ingredients and put them in a pan.
Cover tightly and cook until carrots are well cooked.
Bring the sugar and cinnamon to a boil in one liter of water.
Meanwhile, clean and cut the handles.
How to Dry Bananas
The bananas to be dried must be very ripe.
They should not be peeled.
Put the bananas in a place where there is sun for 4 or 5 days.
Bananas should not get wet.
They should be sunned during the day and stored at night in a dry place.
Combine all four ingredients and leave on low heat until the water dries.
Fry the rice in butter over low heat, moving it until the rice is lightly golden.
Slice the onion and garlic, and add them to the rice. Add the ground tomato, ground chili, and peppermint.
Cook the rice in the water.
Season with cinnamon and sugar.
When the rice is cooked, stir it with the milk.
Move away from heat and serve hot.
Cook the rice, cinnamon and brown sugar in the milk.
To the boiling water, add the salt and oats.
It cooks for two to five minutes, moving from time to time.
Remove from the heat and cover, leaving to rest for 5 minutes.
Combine the brown sugar, cornstarch, salt, and milk powder.
Add the egg and water and mix well.
Put it in a pan over low heat.
