Wounds
The Tlacotes or boils
Scabies
Grain
Dysentery
Earthworms
The Amoebas
Rheumatism
Eye Diseases
Toothache
Earache
Burns
Cold, cough, and the flu
The Pulmonía
The tuberculosis
Typhus and typhoid
The measles
Malaria
How to feed children
How to feed children
Soothing remedies
Sulfa medicine
Wounds
Juan hurt his leg.
Microbes entered the wound and multiplied.
And then it got infected and pus came out.
He stopped eating meat,
beans, eggs and cheese,
Because he thought these foods made him more infected.
but it is not the food that causes the infection, but the microbes
When you are injured, immediately wash the wound with soap and boiled water.
using a clean cloth, or you can wash it with salt water.
Then put on Iodine,
Merthiolate, Sulfatiazole Ointment or any other remedy to heal the wound.
Then sell with a clean white cloth.
Every three days you change the cloth and add more medicine until it heals.
But if pus starts coming out, you have to change the cloth every day,
wash the wound and put another clean cloth and more medicine.
And take the Sulfa medicine, as indicated on page 32, where you say "The Sulfa Medicine"
If the infection has increased,
the wound has swollen and reddened and if you have pain in your entire leg or arm,
then you need another remedy.
Make a bag or fold a small cloth and put two tablespoons of English Salt.
They also serve two tablespoons of table salt if you don't get English Salt.
Then apply it to the wound and wet it with boiled water.
Occasionally add water to keep it wet.
So it takes out all the damage.
Leave this for a few days until it deflates and no longer hurts.
When the cloth becomes dirty, put another clean cloth with the medicine.
Also take Sulfa medicine.
Dirty rags must be burned.
Do not wash them
because this way they pass the microbes to the water, to the hands and later to other people.
The Tlacotes or boils
Make a bag or fold a small cloth and put two tablespoons of English Salt.
They also serve two tablespoons of table salt if you don't get English salt.
Apply it to the tlacote and wet it with boiled water.
Occasionally add water to keep it wet.
So it takes out all the damage.
Leave the remedy for a few days until there is no more pus.
When the cloth becomes dirty, put another clean cloth with the medicine.
Dirty rags must be burned.
When the pus has burst and no longer comes out,
remove the cloth and put Iodine or Mertiolate or Sulfatiazole Ointment.
Sell ​​it with a clean white cloth
It will soon heal.
If another tlacote starts to come out, take the medicine Sulfa,
as indicated on page 32, where it says: "The | Sulpha Medicine."
Scabies
Bathe well with soap and hot water or bathe in the temazcal.
Rub very hard with a brush or with the herbs of the temazcal, in all the parts where the granites are, so that they open.
Then apply Sulfur Ointment to all infected places
Or you can make a remedy by mixing one tablespoon of sulfur in two tablespoons of butter.
You wash all your clothes very well, as well as the sarapes and the duffel bag in which you sleep.
On the second day you apply the remedy again.
On the third day bathe again and apply the remedy again,
Wash the clothes you are wearing again.
This is how all the scabies mites are killed.
The whole family must be cured at once, so that the mites in their house are completely killed,
If the disease starts again, do again what you did before, to heal yourself.
Grain
The grains are produced by microbes and dirt.
If you have pimples, bathe very well every day and add Sulfur Ointment or Sulfatiazole Ointment.
When there are pimples on children's heads, cut their hair, wash their heads well, and remove scabs.
Then put the medicine Mercury Ammonia.
If you can't get Ammonia Mercury, you can add Sulfur Ointment or Zinc Oxide Sulfatiazole Ointment.
Wash their heads daily and put the medicine on them.
Dysentery
Juana's baby suddenly got dysentery.
Microbes entered it and multiplied a lot.
The baby is very young and will die soon if he does not receive medicine.
Therefore she has to buy the medicine soon.
It should not take long, because the little boy will weaken quickly.
You also have to give him a lot of boiled water because he is very thirsty from the disease.
Boiled water does not harm, but on the contrary, children die if they do not drink a lot of water.
Dysentery can be cured with Sulfa medicine.
See page 32, where it says "The Sulfa Medicine", and you will see how an adult or a child takes it.
Instead of the Sulfa, the medicine Integer Vioform or Carnoform also serves.
Take three pills a day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until you heal.
Children should take half a pill three times a day.
Powder the medicine and put it in a tablespoon of water.
If a person has diarrhea from time to time, it is not dysentery, but can be worms or amoebae.
Then the Sulfa will not serve you
But if you suddenly have severe bloody diarrhea, this is dysentery and you need the Sulfa or the Entero-Vioform or Carnoform.
Earthworms
Doña María's son has a swollen belly.
He always coughs even though he doesn't have a cold.
He is always tired, he does not want to play and he is not happy.
Sometimes he eats dirt, and when he sleeps he grinds his teeth.
There are also days when you have fever and diarrhea.
Later everything will swell and die if you do not receive medicine.
It has many worms in its belly.
There are several kinds of earthworms.
There is such a small class that we cannot see it.
An egg entered the child's stomach, and then many earthworms reproduced.
Earthworm eggs are in the ground and also fly in the wind.
There are several remedies for earthworms.
They are called Safe Shot, Chenopodium Oil, Crystoides, Partel and others more.
Tell the apothecary how old the sick child or adult is.
And he will inform you how these remedies should be taken.
These medicines are delicate and if they are not used correctly they will not alleviate the disease.
The person has to take the Crystoides, the Safe Shot, or the Chenopodium Oil at dawn and should not eat.
You should drink plenty of hot water or coffee without panela.
Four hours after taking the Crystoides, the patient must be given a strong purge that causes many worms to be thrown.
You can take English Salt or Castor Oil or another purge or purgative herb.
If it doesn't work, the person has to take more purging.
Then you can eat at noon.
Then you have to eat well of all foods to get stronger.
You have to eat fruits, cooked and raw vegetables, eggs, meat, pumpkin, chilacayote and everything there is.
Because all foods have many vitamins and give strength.
If the person is very thin and weak, they should take a Ferrous Sulfate tablet and a Vitamin B Complex tablet after breakfast every day.
Three weeks after taking the medicine, you have to take it again, in the same way as before, so that the few remaining worms die.
The Amoebas
Many people suffer from a disease caused by a small animal called amoeba.
You can't see this little animal.
(The amoeba) produces gas and stomach pain.
There are rheumatic pains throughout the body.
We become thin and weak.
There is loss of appetite and digestion disorders.
Some people have bloody diarrhea.
The animals are on the ground and can get into the water and food.
They are on the legs of the flies and they put the amoebas in the food.
They come into us and multiply a lot.
Adults: They need 30 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform and 20 of Aralén.
Take 3 Entero-Vioform or Carnoform pills each day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until all 30 pins are gone.
While taking the Whole Vioform or Carnoform, also take 20 Aralén tablets.
Take 2 tablets of Aralén every day, one at dawn and one at dusk, until they run out.
The Entero-Vioform or Carnoform kills the amoebas that are in the intestines and the Aralén kills those that are in the liver.
With these two medicines you will completely heal.
Take all of the prescribed amount, because if you take just a few pills, the illness will start again soon.
Children from 10 to 15 years old: They need 20 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform and 10 of Aralén.
Each day they should take 2 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform, one at dawn and one at dusk.
They should also take each day a tablet of Aralén, half a pill at dawn and half a pill at dusk.
The person who suffers from amoebas must eat well all kinds of food, vegetables and fruits, to strengthen themselves.
Take one tablet of Ferrous Sulfate and one of Vitamin B every day | Complex after breakfast.
Rheumatism
If you have rheumatism, you should sleep well covered.
Sleep on a serape and cover yourself with two others.
On days when you are in a lot of pain, take the medicine Sodium Salicylate, two pills three times a day, at dawn, noon, and dusk.
This will not completely heal you, but it does relieve you for some time.
When the pain returns, take more medicine.
Also rub with the remedy Liniment on the rheumatic parts.
Also rub with the remedy Liniment on the rheumatic parts. Take the recommended medicines on page 10, which says "The Amoebae", because it is perhaps the amoebae that cause the rheumatism.
Eat all cooked and raw vegetables, fruits, milk, meat, beans and wheat tortillas, because all these foods have vitamins that give strength.
Take one tablet of Ferrous Sulfate and one Vitamin B Complex each day after breakfast.
Eye Diseases
You should not touch your eyes, because this is how the microbes that cause disease enter.
Nor should you rub your eyes with rags or sarapes
If you or a child is ill with your eyes, they should not be touched.
Boil a jug of water and add a teaspoon of salt to it.
When the water has cooled somewhat, dip a piece of cotton in it.
Wash the eye with the least disease first, cleaning from the tear to the temples.
Then wash your other eye with another piece of cotton.
Do not put the same cotton twice in clean water.
The pieces of cotton must be burned, because they have the microbes that produce the disease.
If your eyes hurt, soak a very clean cloth in the hot, salty water and put it on your eyes.
When the rag has cooled, soak it again in the hot water and put it back in your eyes as many times as you need until the pain is gone.
You can also buy eye remedies called eye drops.
Put one drop in each eye three times a day.
If there is pus in the eyes, put one drop of Sulfatiazole Eye drops three times a day,
and with a cotton swab wipe the eyes.
There are two kinds of clouds that form in the eyes.
If clouds begin to form in your eyes, quickly buy Sulfatiazole Eye drops.
Put a drop in your sick eye three times a day.
If you have had clouds in your eyes for a long time, medicine will no longer work.
If clouds form below the surface of the eyes, they cannot be cured with any medicine.
Toothache
The sting and pain of the teeth are caused by microbes
We cannot heal them, but we can ease the pain.
There are several brands of remedies that ease pain.
They are called Mejoral, Cafiaspirina, Aspirina Bayer, Fenaspirina, Roberina, Bufferin, and others.
Take one of these remedies when it hurts a lot.
Read it on page 31, where it says "Soothing Remedies", and you will see how to use all of these remedies.
If you are not relieved by these remedies, you should take a Veganin pill.
If the grinding wheel is chopped, rinse well with warm water.
Then fill the bite with a mixture of Zinc Oxide Powder and Clove Essence in a dough consistency.
Or put a bit of cotton wool soaked with Nail Essence or Liniment into the bite.
Leave this for a few hours.
Do the same thing again if the pain returns
If there is swelling or if you have pus coming out, you need to take the Sulfa medicine.
See page 32 where it says "Sulfa Medicine" and you will see how to use this medicine.
If you see a dentist, he will cover your caries or remove your tooth, and you will not suffer anymore.
It is great to brush your teeth and gums every day with well salted water and a toothbrush.
This cleans the teeth and heals the gums when they are infected.
Each person should have their own brush.
You should not use someone else's brush, because diseases are passed from one mouth to another.
Earache
When your or your child's ears are sore, take Sulfa medicine as directed on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine."
If your ears hurt a lot, warm a rag and put it over your ear.
Or you can heat the salt that fits in a small storage.
Empty it into a rag bag and lie down, recharging the 1 ear that hurts on it.
Burns
When a person is burned, eggs must be hunted soon.
Wash your hands very well and break the egg on the burn and rub it in with your hand.
This should be left until the burn has healed.
It is important that the person drinks plenty of hot water or coffee or soft drinks.
You must also eat all kinds of food.
If there is a lot of pain, the person can take Mejoral or another calming remedy.
Do not put Hydrogen peroxide or Mentolate on the burn, because it will cause a lot of pain.
Cold, cough, and the flu
Santiago has a cough.
He is coughing in Chila's face.
Many microbes have entered Chila's nose.
Then Chila will get sick because Santiago does not cover his mouth when he coughs.
Doña Luisa also has a cough.
He is always coughing on his little boy's face and he will get sick.
Always cover your mouth when you cough.
Put a little Mentolate or Vick Vaporub on your nose, neck and chest.
When you have a cough, use Vick Cough Drops.
They must dissolve little by little in the mouth and thus the throat is relieved.
Or put a little Mentolate in the throat and let it dissolve slowly.
If the cough doesn't go away, take a Veganin pill.
If your throat is very sore, you need the Sulfa medicine.
Take it as indicated on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine
If there is high fever and headache and your whole body hurts, this disease is called the flu.
Take Mejoral or another calming remedy, as directed on page 31, where it says "Calming Remedies."
At night before falling asleep, take one tablet of the soothing remedies with a cup of hot water and lemon juice.
Wrap it in two sarapes so it doesn't get cold.
The Bromo-Quinine remedy is also good for the flu.
If you have the flu, stay home and rest.
Don't get together with people because the disease will pass to them.
Lemons, oranges, tomatoes, pomegranates, and all acidic things have Vitamin C which is a good remedy for a cold, cough, and flu.
You need to drink a lot of water.
When you cough or sneeze, cover your mouth with a handkerchief or a clean piece of cloth, so the air doesn't blow your saliva.
Because it carries microbes that pass to other people.
Wash the handkerchief every day.
Do not spit inside the house.
The Pulmonía
Pneumonia is a disease caused by microbes that have entered the lungs.
The disease comes suddenly or when the person has had the flu or other fever.
The person is breathing hard.
Due to insufficient air in the lungs, her nails and lips are purple.
His cough comes from the lungs and his throat makes noise when the air comes out.
Spit up phlegm with blood.
He has a lot of fever and sweats a lot.
Sometimes his chest hurts.
This disease is very serious and you have to buy medicine quickly.
Because if it takes too long, the patient will get so bad that the medicine will no longer help him.
Sulfa medicine is needed.
The best Sulfas for this disease are Tri-Sulfa and Sulfadiazine.
Read page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine", and you will see how to use it.
Take it until there is no more fever; then take it two more days.
If you stop taking the medicine, a relapse may come.
In times when you are in a lot of pain, take Mejoral or another soothing remedy as directed on page 31.
The tuberculosis
Tuberculosis is a disease in which another class of microbes has entered the lungs.
It makes the person become thin and weak.
He constantly coughs and sometimes spits blood.
She is always tired and does not want to eat.
At night he has fever and sweats.
Or the disease makes small holes in the leg, back, or neck.
And pus comes out for a long time and the person becomes thin and weak.
We cannot cure tuberculosis.
But a doctor can cure it.
There is medicine that kills the microbes that cause this disease.
The sick person needs to be examined by a doctor, and he will tell how the medicine should be taken.
So go with him, because this disease is very serious and only the doctor will cure you.
Do not delay in going to the doctor, because if you do not go soon, the healing will be more difficult.
Typhus and typhoid
There are two diseases called typhus and typhoid.
Fleas and lice bring germ to the germ that typhus produces.
They sting sick people and suck up the microbes that are in the blood of the sick.
Then they bite other people and in a week or two they get sick.
The microbes that make typhoid are in raw water or food.
Flies also introduce microbes into food and drinks.
Always bury dirt, especially from sick people.
Flies walk on top of dirt and then walk on your child's food and mouth
When there is an epidemic of typhus or typhoid it is necessary to kill fleas, lice and flies with DDT.
DDT must be sprayed throughout the town, in all houses and in all people and animals.
We also have to boil well the water we drink and use to make tortillas and wash dishes.
You should boil the water for one minute, ten minutes, and then cover the pot and let it cool.
We cover the food well to prevent flies from entering.
We should not eat or drink in the home of a typhus or typhoid patient.
We should wash our hands well (when we return from the house of a sick person).
Let's not get together with people when there is an epidemic.
Chloromycetin is the best remedy for typhus and typhoid.
This medicine is expensive but it is very necessary to take it because these diseases are very serious.
We will soon be relieved by the medicine, because it kills the microbes that are inside us.
Adults: They need about 36 Chloromycetin capsules.
When you start, take 5 capsules at once.
Then take 8 capsules each day, two at dawn, two at noon, two at dusk, and two at midnight.
Continue to drink until you no longer have fever.
So for two more days, take 4 capsules a day, one capsule at the same times mentioned above.
Children: At first they should take 2 capsules of Chloromycetin at once.
Then they should take 4 capsules each day, one at dawn, one at noon, one at dusk and one at midnight, until they no longer have fever.
So for two more days, they should take 2 capsules, one at dawn and one at dusk.
The medicine Aureomycin or Terramycin also works.
They are taken in the same way as Chloromycetin.
Sulfa should not be taken for this disease.
When your head hurts a lot and you have a lot of fever, you can take Mejoral or another calming remedy.
These calming remedies cause the fever to drop a little and the pain to ease somewhat.
But they do not kill microbes and do not make the sick person heal sooner.
Read it on page 31, where it says "Soothing Remedies", and you will see how to use these remedies.
People with typhoid and typhoid should eat well so they have the strength to heal.
They should only eat soft foods such as eggs, sapotes, pumpkins, bananas, strained atole and milk.
They should not eat beans or chili until they heal.
Every two hours they should eat a little, and they should also drink a lot of boiled water.
The measles
When there is a measles epidemic, don't let your children play with other children.
If your child has measles, his eyes hurt a lot.
You have to stay inside the house; You should not go out in the sun because your eyes hurt more.
You should also not let smoke get into your eyes.
It is good to lie down and close your eyes.
Give him the Improvement remedy or another calming remedy, as indicated on page 31.
You need to drink a lot of boiled water.
If your child is very hot, coughs, and has a sore chest, quickly give him the Sulfa medicine, as directed on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine."
Malaria
Simon went to the coast.
When he came back he had the disease called malaria.
The insects that cause malaria are a class of mosquitoes called Anopheles.
Simon was bitten and microbes were put into his blood.
They multiplied in his blood and he got sick.
Occasionally his illness returns.
10 tablets of Aralén are needed.
Take 4 pills at noon and two more at dusk.
On the second day, take two pills at dawn and two at dusk.
Or 25 Metoquine pills can be taken instead of Aralén.
Take 3 pills each day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until the 25 pills are gone.
How to feed children
When a creature does not eat enough, it is not in good health and cries continuously.
Maybe the mom doesn't have enough milk.
Then you have to buy powdered milk and give it to the child, following the instructions on the can.
Everything we eat has vitamins and proteins and other substances that give us strength.
When the child is about four months old, he should gradually start eating other foods in addition to suckling.
Give him about two tablespoons of soft foods each day.
Each week you can give him a little more, until he eats a plate of food daily.
These are the foods you should eat:
A warm egg.
Cooked oatmeal.
Strained atole.
A piece of banana ground and mixed with a little bit of cooked water.
Orange juice with a little sugar.
When he grows a little more, he should eat everything.
