A Man Asks For A Wife For His Godson
I had an engagement, because my compadre told me that I had to find a wife for my godson.
I spoke to him to find out what family the girl is from, and he told me which house he lived in.
We went to the house, and my godson was happy to ask his wife.
We talked to the father of the girl my godson chose as a companion.
The Lord gave us a term of fifteen days; and when we went again, she told us that her daughter did want to marry my godson, but that we would do things little by little, with the grace of God, and she gave us another
Then we went again, and she said there was hope, because her daughter was fond of my godson. But he told us:
-We have to wait a little longer. At the end that time will tell, because now there are hopes, and it does not make it a year.
But then I said: -If your daughter really wants to get married, a little time is enough; but if the girl does not care for my godson, then we will look elsewhere. Then he said to me:
-Well, we are going to settle the matter, but we have to wait another three months.
Three months were up, and then we went to see dad again. He told us that the girl did want to marry my godson, and gave another three-month deadline.
When the deadline was met, we went again to close the deal, and we had a little party. We carry tepache and buy brandy. When we arrived at his house, we entered, we greeted and said the paragon.
Meanwhile, the relatives of the couple got together. Later, the best man of the bride asked the groom if he had thought it through and wanted that girl to be his partner.
In the same way, the groom's best man asked the bride if she had already thought it through, and if she wanted the boy to be her husband. The bride replied:
Yes, I thought about it well and I want him to be my husband
"Hasn't your sister, or your aunt, or your uncle forced you?" Because if so, maybe tomorrow or the day after they will start fighting.
But the girlfriend said that no one had forced her, that she had thought about it very well.
When we finished talking, the parents and relatives of the bride received some food. They ate many tortillas and drank brandy; they took tepache and smoked cigars.
Then the dance began and everyone danced with pleasure, because at last everything was arranged for the bride and groom to get married.
The next day we went to the municipality and arrived with the authorities.
The request was made, and the groom's parents went to sign the paper.
Afterward, the groom went to Tlaxiaco to secure the role of the marriage.
When the groom returned, authorities asked them if there had been anyone who forced them to marry. But they answered that no, that everything had been done because they had thought about it very well.
The judge advised my compadre to be very careful and patient with his daughter-in-law.
Then he married them together and we had a big party. That day two goats and two sheep were killed and we made a good expense.
We made tepache. We bought brandy and cigarettes and many people were invited for the wedding.
This is how my godson found a wife, and I gave him many tips to take care of his wife.
I also advised the wife to obey her husband, so that they can live well, because if not, they will begin to quarrel and they will not be able to live well. That's what I told you when you got married.
