MIXTECAS CUSTOMS
TIPS FROM A MOTHER TO HER PROMISED DAUGHTER IN MARRIAGE
WEDDING
Advice from a mother to her promised daughter in marriage
- If you want to get married, (today they ask me to give it to them) go to them.
Well go, but see that you don't change your mind later and come back here; see that you are not lazy in caring for animals;
see that you are not lazy in making their tortillas; see that you are not lazy; See that you do not insult them, especially your mother-in-law, when you arrive.
Today you are given to them to go to their house. Don't offend them when you get there. You will be respectful to them.
Do they eat chelite?
Make it salty or spicy according to your taste; grind your atole for them to drink; prepare your food.
Do everything in order so you don't embarrass us.
Give them an omelette when they ask for it and give them their bottle when they want it.
When you go to your in-laws' house, do well; don't insult them.
Leave behind the customs we have in this house.
Do we prefer salty food?
Do we prefer it without seasoning?
It doesn't matter anymore.
Now that will be your home. The work they do will be what you do, and the work they do well, so will you.
Let them rule. Make sure they can eat in peace. Get up to grind corn when it's still night. Raise chickens and pigs.
They are people who have goats, so take care of them.
They are people who have cattle, so take them to pasture even in the rainy season when you get wet;
And so you will do for your husband: you will wash his clothes and prepare his food;
you will make tortillas for me to eat; you will grind very well for him. This is how you will do when you leave.
See that you don't change your mind and come back to us, embarrassing us.
That way they would not insult and send us to jail and we would be ashamed.
If you like to go, go ahead; but if you don't really like it, don't go. See that you don't embarrass us.
Then the daughter answers like this:
`` I'm definitely leaving, '' he says. I want to marry him. If I go.
--Well OK. We have already taken you at your word today.
See that you don't say we compel you.
You are leaving today, but don't come back here because you would embarrass us.
That's what they say.
That is the advice they give their daughters.
Wedding
When the parents finish advising their daughter, they go and notify the women and men on the maternal side, that is, the sisters and brothers of the mother.
Maybe there are four or five women and four or five men.
After that, they go and notify the men on Dad's side.
Maybe he has two or three brothers and they say:
They are looking for our little girl.
- Should we give it to them?
--And they answer like this:
"And why give it to them?"
They are bad people; they are wild, they are bad, they fight with their daughters-in-law.
Why give it to them?
Why consent to that?
- Because of the little girl, because she wants to go; for her, because she wants to go - the parents say.
So they say:
--Okay. There is no remedy.
If she wants to go herself, then let her go.
But be careful not to get lazy "
Women also say the same thing.
They return to the house; and when the boy's family arrives they send word that they kill an animal that may be a goat or an ox:
"Go buy an ox to kill it; Buy both soft drinks, both brandy and a dozen and a half chickens.
We have a lot of family, both women and men. They are many. They send the boy's family. But their dad begs them:
`` Cut back a little. Poor us! Cut back a little.
"We will not lower," says the girl's father, "because we have many relatives; they are almost a whole town and eat a lot.
Then the boy's family leaves. Then they come back and say:
`` Then lower even a little.
Poor us!
They lower a little, then, and the negotiations are concluded. The boy's parents leave and then return.
`` The party will be this or that day, '' the girl's parents say, `` maybe Monday or Tuesday. On that day the whole family will be.
This way they communicate the date of the party to all the relatives, both the boy's and the girl's. Everyone will gather on that day. On that day, relatives from both sides arrive.
The goats have already been killed, the meat has arrived, the goats' heads have already boiled. All the girl's relatives are on this side, the boy's relatives are on that side.
Hers are here; those who are going to take her there. Hers are here; those who are going to take her there. Everyone has arrived and begins to eat.
So they go and invite the catechist and the commissioner to the wedding:
`` Come and watch today's wedding, '' says the girl's family.
You, the authorities, come to observe the wedding because they are looking for our little girl. Come to be witnesses.
Look, we are not guilty of overeating.
Look we are not guilty of receiving too much money for the girlfriend.
Come, Mr. Catechist; And Mr. Commissioner and Alternate and Commander. Come to our house.
Now they know that we love them as our witnesses.
Then the authorities go to the house, and when the girl's family arrive they say:
- At this time we want you to know, Mr. Catechist and Commissioner, that my friend and his family came for our little girl; They came to look for her among us so that we could give her to her.
Three or four, up to five times they came, but we refused to consent. They tried to force us.
At last, we accept our daughter's decision; We agree to hand it over to you.
That is why we have asked them to come, since they are the commissioner and catechist.
We want you to know today that this is what we have done with our daughter.
We will not be to blame.
Are we the ones who wanted to give it to them?
It was they who wanted her.
They were pleased to come here and ask for it; and that is why we answer their request in this way.
Then the commissioner and the catechist call to the bride: "Come here," they say.
They put their rods to a standstill; the catechist has one and the commissioner has one.
And with their standing sticks they say:
`` Get on your knees.
They put a duffel there and he comes forward on his knees. Then the commissioner asks for your vote:
"Do you like going to these people's houses?"
--I like it.
--Really?
--Really.
"Isn't there someone cheating on you? Your aunt?"
Your brother? Isn't there anyone cheating on you?
--No one.
`` Does the desire to go home come from your own heart?
`` It sprouts from my own heart.
--Okay.
But don't fool the rod and don't fool us.
You cannot fool the rod because it is the rod of the child Jesus Christ.
Are you really not cheating on her?
--Really.
--Okay. Okay, he says.
Then the bride and groom cross themselves with the rod.
Now the catechist asks for his vote, so she walks past him and he says to her:
`` Do you really want to go live in their house?
Isn't there anyone cheating on you? Is your mom pawning you?
"They are not pawning me; it is my own love.
`` Do you really like going to their house?
`` I really like him.
`` Well that's fine because the stick is here.
This is the rod of the child Jesus Christ.
You can fool us, but you cannot fool the rod.
We are the ones who have sin.
But this is the rod of Jesus Christ and he had no sin.
`` Okay, '' say the authorities.
The girl returns to her place and now the boy comes forward.
They also ask for his vote:
`` Is it true what you will tell us, José?
He comes forward on his knees.
`` Is it true, José?
Is it true that you want to marry this little Maria?
It is true?
`` It is true, Lord, it is true.
I would like.
`` Isn't your mom or dad forcing you?
--The desire was born in my own mind.
`` In my own heart?
`` In my own heart.
--Okay. It's okay.
Is there no one forcing you?
Not even your brother? Not even your aunt? Nor is anyone cheating on you to marry Maria?
`` No, nobody, '' says the boy.
--Okay. It's okay.
Then the catechist crosses himself in front of the staff.
`` Well, hug each other now, '' say the commissioner and the catechist.
Then they hug, and then the boy takes out a necklace and places it around the girl's neck.
The girl takes a handkerchief and places it around the boy's neck.
So they do. That's how it ends.
And the boy receives her and they go and sit in an adjacent room. The table is set for the catechist, the commissioner and the authorities to eat.
And then the girl's relatives and the boy's relatives begin to eat and drink.
When all are finished they take the girl, and leaving the house they accompany her to the house of those who will receive her.
