The lizard
The lizard is an iguana-like animal, but smaller, which can usually be found anywhere.
It reproduces by eggs, which are buried by females in places where loose soil exists. It is very common to see it walking in wasteland where there are mallows or bushes, in the rainy season is when we can find a considerable number of this species.
They are reptiles that do not cause any harm to human beings, instead, there are children who are struck by the size of this little animal;
sometimes they dedicate themselves to killing them, either with stones, slingshots and garters, making staples with wire, especially for this purpose; It is not uncommon to find groups of children running after these animals.
They say that the consequences are painful, since days later a cut appears on one of the toes, or on the smallest toe, which makes children suffer since, for many days, they will not be able to wear huaraches, it is a nuisance that will teach them not to kill these defenseless beings.
The Rainbow
In the rainy season it is common to see the rainbow in the sky.
Grandparents tell of this color combination that it is produced by a snake found in a nearby stream,
who emits from his mouth a kind of lightning, which is reflected in space. When it's raining and a rainbow appears,
it is a sign that it is not going to continue raining, so whoever wants to do some activity in the field can do it, because the rainbow stops the water.
Children love to play during and after the rain,
but when a rainbow appears parents advise children not to point the finger at it because it may "eat" the finger.
Some children for fear of running out of fingers prefer not to test this belief. From this we must learn that we must have respect for this phenomenon and others related to nature.
BROOM
From a very young age, children learn that they must collaborate in activities in the fields and at home, specifically cleaning in the house or on the patio.
They learn it by imitating the way they see parents doing this task.
Some parents induce the child from an early age to make good use of the material they are using at that time, such as the broom.
The elders advise children not to sweep a person's feet, nor to allow themselves to be swept, because they say that they will not find a husband or wife their own age, but an older one.
That is why, when a person sees someone who is sweeping, he stands aside, especially if he is single, because he would not like the above to be fulfilled in the future. In addition to this, it is not advisable to sweep at night because the little economic resource that one possesses "moves away from the house" and one would be suffering from deficiencies by not paying the person money.
The skunk
It is a wild animal, of regular size, that lives in the forest; by the way, it gives off a very strong smell when you urinate. He goes out to look for his food at night, in the day in very few occasions.
Different beliefs have been woven around this animal, for example, when a person goes out at night to look for an armadillo, if he were to see a skunk he will almost certainly not get any armadillo,
but if this animal urinates your dog. It is believed that it is bad to find a skunk when a person goes hunting.
Sometimes, in the town you get to smell the skunk smell, people know that later misfortunes will happen that will affect the tranquility of the town,
although the animal does not precisely reach the town, because the smell given off by its urine covers great distances;
but the skunk uses urine as a means to protect itself from its enemies, as well as to escape when it is in danger.
The cat
In many houses the cat is kept as a pet, people adopt it because it is good to kill mice and in this way live in a house without the damage caused by rodents.
Cats meow when they are hungry or in heat. During the day they dedicate themselves to sleep, at night they give themselves up to hunt mice.
But it is believed that despite living with people, it bears the omen that something unexpected or tragic will happen in the house.
When he begins to meow at night on the roof of the house, some people associate it with evil; Others prefer not to have them at home, for fear of that special way they communicate.
Fright
In the town there are many healers who are dedicated to caring for the sick with fright, the symptoms they present are very varied,
just as different are the places and the ways in which one can be frightened: the fact of seeing something unexpected, that they speak to someone at a time when they are physically and mentally busy.
Fright can trigger different discomforts.
The healers use the pulse of the hand to be able to take care of the patient, this is of utmost importance to know if it should be cured with herbs taken or spread, with copal or with egg. Therefore, in the town it is not customary to interrupt a person who is engaged in some activity, or when they find that someone has been scared, they should hit the person lightly with branches on different parts of the body, they should also drink water, With this, the fear is somewhat annulled, ensuring that in the future it does not result in an evil that damages the person.
That is why, in the town it is not customary to interrupt a person who is engaged in some activity, or when they realize that someone has been frightened, they should hit the person lightly with branches on different parts of the body, they should also drink water,
With this, the fear is somewhat annulled, ensuring that in the future it does not result in an evil that damages the person.
Ask for the rain
Rain is the most important thing for the preservation of life, that is why it cannot be absent in Jicayán in the period in which it is destined to rain.
If for some reason the water is delayed, people comment that it is a punishment that is imposed on them because some member of the community misused it, also for the fact of doing physical harm to the people of the same community.
There have been periods of up to a month or more when the rain has stopped, so the entire population gathers to visit the nearby water hole, where they take the saints, including the patron saint of the town.
With devotion water is requested, at the same time that the saints are bathed. Sometimes they barely manage to get home, so it can start to rain.
It is the only way that the villagers manage to communicate with the rain god, in addition to the sins they have been forgiven.
The iguanero dog
A home without a dog is not complete, so in no house should this animal be missing;
Although it is true, there is a lot of difference between the treatment or care given by mestizos (looking after the house or property) and the indigenous people (being a faithful companion).
The dogs are not locked up but always accompany the farmer to help him hunt armadillos and iguanas.
It should be added that there are dogs that are good for hunting or herding animals, such as deer, goats and cows.
On this occasion, we will talk about the dogs that catch armadillos or iguanas, these are highly coveted and from a young age it shows when they are going to be good because they have a fingernail that hangs on their hind legs.
Care should be taken when they start hunting because if in the family they fight for iguana meat (it happens among children), or it is not shared between neighbors, or if the armadillo meat is given to the lover,
the dog is sure to "get hurt"; that is, it will no longer grab armadillos or iguanas.
Wind
When it is the rainy season, it is expected that it will rain in a moderate way, or if it is strong, but without wind, because rain with wind is not desired by the peasants because it mistreats the cornfield, which is why gives little corn production.
In some years the experience of strong rains with wind has been lived, which has caused a shortage of corn;
the elderly believe that it is due to a punishment for selling the corn dearly, or because people from other neighboring towns are wind naguals who take advantage of the rain to cause damage to the fields, out of rancor or envy.
It is said that the people who suffer these damages, it is because they have also done wrong to other people or because they have the same nagual,
other times when they see the wind coming they go and protect their cornfield so that it is not mistreated.
Dog fight at a party
In the town, stewardships, weddings, "estates", among other celebrations, are traditional.
Usually they occur in places where many people attend, some supporting with their work, others as guests, but all with the idea of ​​living with the celebrated.
As we must know, in addition to the fact that people attend, it must also be pointed out that dogs, animals that arrive uninvited, or come accompanying their owners, are never lacking.
Many times the dogs fulfill the function of cleaning the place where the party takes place, since they collect all the food waste, but when a considerable amount of these animals of different sizes and breeds are found, fights usually arise, either because of waste or because they are unknown to each other.
When this happens, older people comment that you have to be forewarned because surely someone under the influence of alcohol will provoke a quarrel at the party.
The fact that the dogs are fighting is taken as a warning and not as a mere coincidence or something temporary.
Planting a fruit tree
It is very common in the town to grow many fruit trees such as: nanches. guavas, mangoes, plums, mameyes, sapodilla, etc.
Part of people's diet is based on the fruits that these plants provide, but the secret that we will talk about lies in the special way in which they are planted. Have you wondered why some fruit trees from very young begin to bear fruit and Others have not produced for years?
The peasants know that every fruit tree should be planted when the moon is in the waning stage, in addition to requiring special care to prevent the muleteers and animals such as cows, horses, donkeys, mistreating it, because this delays its development.
In such a way that people do not depend on grafted trees, since they think that if they want a good harvest, everything will depend on care; in addition to the fact that it is forbidden for women of any age to go up to lower the fruits of these trees, because if they are sweet fruits they will become bland, so the parents scold the girls who climb the fruit trees.
SEEING WHERE THE DOGS PAIR
Some domestic animals are used by the people of the town for their food, others to help them in their survival;
We can say that between man and animal there is a close relationship, in such a way that we learn to decipher the sounds produced by animals as a means of communication, to such an extent that the behaviors of animals are normal for people.
Although there are some behaviors that adults do not want children to observe, such as the mating of dogs, which is common to see on the streets,
By the time the dogs are found in this action, the children know that they should not see them, because a "knob" will appear in their eyes, which is a granite that sprouts in the lower part of the eyelids. Some for fear of the pain that this entails close their eyes, others risk to verify this belief but they will have to support the discomfort in the eyes for several days.
Changing places from time to time
At the time of eating, children are advised to sit down to eat their food, eating while walking is not allowed because you must have a deep respect for what you eat, because it is what will give life to the body.
At a certain age children tend to walk from one place to another; so the grandparents say that you should not change seats, because as an adult you will walk, if you are a child, with one and the other woman, and if you are a woman, with one and the other man, and this is frowned upon by the indigenous culture, because the monogamous family is preserved.
The children are reprimanded, and they return to the first place where they sat down to finish with their food, with the illusion that when they grow up they can get a single partner with which to form their family.
In addition to this, they always take care that children do not sit on the metate or on the sharpening stone, because if they do not grow up, they will only breed girls or boys.
The nagual
It is believed that from a very young age, children have a human and an animal side, that is, at birth they are assigned an animal that will take care of them, and that will have the same characteristics as the child.
Somehow the grandparents know the child's nagual, but the child should not know him because he will be very sensitive to what happens to him in the afterlife.
With this understanding, many people observe the physical features of another person and are very skilled at nicknames, which refers to the animal that is their nagual.
Hence, the elderly prohibit the killing of animals because it is as if a person was killed, and if they have friends or relatives who are larger or more powerful animals, they can "claim" them,
and from there serious problems of physical aggression result in the afterlife, of which dreams are the only way to find out.
Make evil eye
The human being is conceived as something very complex, because there are times when he is very strong and others when he is very weak. Because of this, when you are a baby, special care is required,
in such a way that it can touch "bad airs", for which you should always carry a bracelet with a walnut so that nothing happens to it, because there are people who can harm the child.
For example, when a person admires a physical feature of the child (eyes, mouth, hair, etc.) and does not lend it to him to carry it, it is certain that the child will not sleep at night, he will spend crying ,
until the person who saw him put a little saliva on it, or in his case they make him sleep in a dirty shirt of the father. On other occasions, his eyes will turn red and he will get a legaña, so they must spread a ranch chicken egg all over his body, that will be the cure for this discomfort.
The owl
This wild animal is not common to see it in the day, and less in the town; many people do not know it, they have only seen it in books.
However, the belief that our ancestors have transmitted to us is that it is a messenger from beyond, in the sense that it is the bird that comes to communicate that a person is going to die, that is why they are so afraid of it.
This fear is not due to the size of his eyes but to the meaning of the song of this animal, because when he sings an owl in a tree near the house where someone lives, it is a sign that he or a neighbor will die within a few days.
Only when the song is at dusk it is thought that the person will take some other days, but when it is at dawn, it may be hours or a day that will be left to live.
The black dog
The dog in our culture has had a special place, due to the fact that he is a faithful companion of man, in addition to helping him to get his food.
But, the black dog has a special meaning, since our grandparents talk that this animal should not be beaten, or left tied up in the rain when taking care of the cornfield in the bush, because if it is harmed, when the dog and the person die, will not help the owner, or who has treated him badly to cross the river that exists in the afterlife
Because it is believed that in the afterlife there is a very large river that the person who dies must cross; and if he did not hit the animal, it will be waiting for the owner to climb on his back and cross it in that deep river; since as we have to know dogs are very good swimmers.
Therefore, it is better to take care of this animal so that we can have its help.
Eat in a dark place
It is very common that at night parents or grandparents delight in telling stories or tales to children. This activity usually starts in the afternoons, after arriving from the field, so sometimes children forget to have dinner, although on many occasions they take advantage of the space between one story and another to go for a taco to the kitchen .
But when the grandparents return, they do not allow the children to eat there, because they say that no one should eat any food in dark places, because when he grows up he can be blamed for a crime or theft without being the one who committed it, or otherwise people can raise false that affect your person.
So when someone wants to eat something, it is better to do it in illuminated places, so that when he is a citizen he has a good image and can serve and occupy positions of popular election.
Give the armadillo meat to a lover
Jicayán is one of the towns that practice the armadillo hunting; the vast majority of people go to other places such as the shoal, near the sea, to hunt armadillos with their dogs.
For this activity they are organized among family members and they are looking for a dog that has the ability to capture these animals, sometimes they spend up to a week in those places to take advantage of the trip.
The armadillos that they hunt distribute them to them, these serve as a source of food for the families, in addition to selling the surplus in the same town.
But hunters are very careful about the meat of this animal, because the elders say that they should not give it to a lover,
because the dog that went to grab the armadillos is "damaged", and it is very difficult to hunt again as before.
Burying the dead with his belongings.
In addition to parties, it is common to accompany family or friends in sad times, when someone dies, as a sign of support.
In general, in these events, black beans are offered as food, in addition to alcoholic beverages that mitigate pain in difficult times.
After veiling the body, he is taken to be buried in the pantheon, there is a belief that there is life in the afterlife, for this reason the deceased must be accompanied by all his belongings that he used on earth, so that he can survive in that other world.
Among the things with which the body is buried we can mention: clothes, a bule of water, work instruments, plates and jicars.
Hence, the relatives who do not deposit the aforementioned to one side of the deceased, are criticized by the population when considering them as inhuman.
The power of people with two "whirlpools" on their heads
One of the widespread beliefs in the town is regarding the power of people who have two "whirlpools" in their hair;
These eddies can be found as two circles in the central part of the head; that is why when a child has these characteristics they take care of him because he is very sensitive to anger and can die prematurely, hence these beings have a special place within the family.
It is said that they have a special power to multiply all the products they sow, such as:
corn, beans, squash, chili, etc. So where there is someone with these attributes it is rare that food is needed; Usually these people work little and produce a lot, because they believe in the possibility of an extraordinary yield from their tillage.
When it trembles
When natural phenomena are amazing, the human being looks for some explanations, this is the case of tremors. Because Jicayán is in a seismic place, our parents have learned to interpret these events.
In Jicayán it rains frequently, many times it is not possible to predict how many days it will rain, but the elderly know that when it trembles on one of those days it is certain that the water will continue for many more days; in the same way, when it trembles on days when it has not rained, it is taken as a sign that the rain will be removed for many days. These beliefs help the farmer to plan some activities that he carries out.
The tremors also cause the water wells that exist in the community to dry up, and as a result there is a shortage of water.
The eclipse of the moon
One of the well-known natural phenomena in the population are the so-called eclipses. When people observe this phenomenon, they usually sound the objects they find, such as boats, cans, pitchers,
in addition to ringing the church bell, to revive the moon, because the lunar eclipse is as if the moon is passing away. It is said that pregnant women should hide so that it does not affect them, because if they leave without protection, when the baby is born, they will have a cleft lip.
The way to protect yourself is by wearing a garment from your husband or covering your head with a shirt; In addition, the pregnant woman is not allowed to sleep during this time, so that the moon does not harm the new being.
When looking for Chepiles
The chepiles are one of the favorite vegetables of the jicayanenses; Two types of chepiles are distinguished: the one with a green stem and the red one, the latter being the most delicious. We can find these herbs in the field or in the patio of the houses; This food is usually consumed in all households because it is part of traditional food.
The farmer, after finishing his activities in the field, cuts the chepiles so that when they get home, the wife can cook them and enjoy them together. But there is a belief that not everyone can cut chepiles, because when a person who is sick bathes in warm water, will not have the special smell given off by the leaves when cut, therefore they will not be tasty.
So it is better that when we get sick we do not take a bath with warm water, because this will make it impossible for us to cut this delicious herb.
What is done with the placenta of a newborn baby
The placenta is essential for the baby during his stay inside the mother. The birth of a boy or a girl is something that has a lot of meaning for our people,
and somehow the placenta contains valuable information to know how many more children the woman who gave birth may have, in addition to revealing whether they will be boys or girls.
When the little balls that the placenta contains are very black they will be males and if they are not so dark then more women will surely be born. Midwives have a prominent role in deciphering this information; In addition, from the house, it is suggested to bury the placenta nearby, so that the new being gets used to his new home very soon and when he grows up, do not forget town.
Although on the other hand, it is dangerous because it causes lightning to strike in the rainy season.
When they are making tamales
The women of Jicayán usually make tamales for family consumption or for a celebration, these can be chicken, armadillo, marrano, rabbit, turkey, among others.
During the time that they are dedicated to making tamales fingers and putting them in the pots, strangers are not allowed to come, because they can cause them not to cook as they should, and get them "the fox", that is, they are not cooked properly. Sometimes the pot takes a long time on the fire without cooking the tamales,
until they put two red chilies in the shape of a cross, or put a molcajete stone inside it, so that "the fox" is removed so that the tamales can be enjoyed.
Day of the Death
All Saints or Day of the Dead is one of the most traditional festivals in the town and in the Costa region. On the days that this celebration comprises, it is adorned with marigold flowers and arches resembling a vault, and candles are lit,
in addition to preparing the necessary food for the dead to enjoy everything they consumed when they lived in this world.
Because it is believed that these days those who died come to visit their loved ones, with the exception of those who have not yet died for a year because they stay to take care of the home of those who come to Earth.
It is a way to share food with friends, family, acquaintances and strangers, because these days everything is offered in good will, just by visiting the people of the town we can enjoy a considerable amount of fruits and traditional dishes.
When the flowers fall from the fruit trees
The best known fruit trees in Jicayán are: orange, nanche, papaya, mamey, butcher, coconut palm, tamarind, lime, mango, among others.
For this reason, it is not uncommon to find any of the trees mentioned on the town grounds.
Our diet has depended largely on fruit, so in the town with these trees special care is taken.
Of course, sometimes some trees do not bear fruit, because before they form, the flowers fall; As a remedy to this, the elderly recommend that they hang old jugs, old pots and pieces of red cloth tied to the branches, so that the tree is ashamed and begins to produce; for some reason they end up bearing fruit.
