I will buy fertilizer to kick my cornfield.
I no longer have a grandfather.
He who sells fresh water is very abusive, because he gives it very expensive.
Go fetch water.
New edible oil has arrived.
You have to accept it, since they give it to us.
A man plays the accordion.
The day you get married they will give you a marriage certificate.
I am going to decorate my house because I am going to have a party.
Give me an avocado to eat.
A downpour fell last night.
I have two coils of wire.
I'm going to drop my daughter off at the hostel.
Pass me the alcohol because I hurt my hand.
No longer going food for pigs.
I have many friends.
I am going to burn fire with my stove.
A wanderer boy.
I lost my wife's ring.
I have twenty antenna strokes.
The damper in my house has already broken.
I take my plow to fallow.
I want some sand.
I'm going to buy a coffin.
I go with authority.
I'm leaving on the plane.
Today we are going to pass the most urgent notices.
The ayate has already been filled with the cob.
The roof of my house fell.
Go bring the sugar to make fresh water to drink.
I'm going to dance and come back.
Tomorrow I will make a bench to sit down.
I am going to buy fertilizer at the Rural Bank of Tlapa.
We will see the flag at school.
I'm going to sit on this bench.
Here is the bathroom where we bathe.
I'm going to learn to play deck.
The boat that walks in the water is very beautiful.
How beautiful is your jig.
His scale does not work, so the authorities no longer want him to sell.
The battery in the car was discharged.
Give me the bib because I need it.
I go to the library to study for a while.
I get on the bike and we are leaving right now.
They paid him with pure bills now.
I'm going to buy bimbo to eat.
I'm going to buy a blouse for my skirt.
The winery is already very old.
Go buy a ticket for the nine o'clock car.
Go and tell Dona Petra to give you four bobbins.
I take this bag.
I'm going to kill fleas with this bomb.
Pass me the eraser.
I will take care of our sheep.
I had some snacks to eat today.
I'm going to bring that boat.
I'm going to bring that bottle so you can go buy a soda.
Give me a button to put it on my clothes.
Juana's bra is black.
Luis's glitter is red.
I want a brush to paint the door of my house.
Do not make fun of him because if you do not already bother.
I'm going to ride this horse.
I am going to buy light cable to install my house.
I really like to eat peanuts.
With this chain I am going to tie the dog.
I'm going to put coffee to drink.
I'm going to buy a cardboard box.
I bought two socks.
I will see in the calendar what month we are in.
I messed up my house with calidra.
I want a brief to wear.
I'm going on this street.
Shrimp is expensive to eat.
Go get my shirt to put it on.
I'm going to ring the bell in church.
Go leave a deceased to the churchyard.
I'm going to see if the water passes over there in the canal.
I'm going to buy a basket.
We are going to play on the court.
I'm going to buy a padlock to close my door.
The crab that came out of the water is very beautiful.
Give me the pitcher to go fetch water to drink.
There are many drunks in the canteen.
I am going to keep my papers in this folder because if they are not going to get stained.
The highway has already entered our town.
I don't have a wheelbarrow.
When I go to Tlapa, I will take the car.
Here is a letter that came to you.
The postman is coming for the house.
The cilium cardboard I bought was very expensive.
I'm going to buy a cardboard.
I have a small house.
Castle is going to burn in my town because it is a party.
I'm going to buy a new casserole.
I'm going to eat pozole and I'm going to add onion.
My brush is new.
The wax with which I am going to make candles is over.
They stole my match.
They already gave me my certificate.
Beer is very expensive now.
My head hurts when I smoke a cigarette.
I want a chisel.
We go to the cinema to see the film because it is beautiful.
The belt you have in black.
I'm going to buy a nail to nail this stick.
The collector charged me dearly.
I'm going to buy a coconut to eat.
Very nice the rocket rises.
I am going to paint my house with this color.
Mr. Commander is very ill.
I'll wait for you in the dining room to eat.
I'm going to make food to eat.
I'm going to see the commissioner.
Pedro communicates with Pablo.
I'm going to kill that rabbit already there.
My grandfather gave me advice.
The doctor charges a lot for a consultation.
I go to the office.
I will put a call in "The voice of the mountain".
I'm going with the cooperator lord.
Give me that copal because I will occupy it.
I'm going to see for a little while why they are playing the kite.
The corral where the chickens have is very large.
I am going to Tlapa to buy a strap for my huaraches.
Give me the nail clipper to cut my nails.
The bag with which I work has already broken.
In my town we have a very beautiful custom.
I take this belt to tie my oxen.
They already gave me my credential.
I need cream for my face.
Wait for me on the Tlaxco cruise.
My room is very small.
Give me the bucket so I can bring water.
Give me that spoon that's there.
Give me the knife to cut the rope.
I am going to take out my account, how much will I get for the corn that I am going to buy.
Mom, tell me a story.
The string on my guitar broke.
I sell a beef leather.
I'm going to kill that cuiji that goes there.
I have a sister-in-law.
Tomorrow I will give a fee where I study.
I want to chew gum.
I'm going to buy pork rinds to eat.
I will make chilate to eat.
The chirmole that Filomena made is very spicy.
I'm going to buy chocolate for breakfast.
The driver is very good.
I'm going to see the rabbit dance.
I am sick with dengue.
The school children go to the parade.
Today he is a saint of Mr. Miguel.
The flower Beto drew is very beautiful.
I'm going to look up a word in this dictionary.
Tomorrow I am going to ask for dynamite because I am going to need it.
The director was angry with my son because he did not go to study one day.
I go to the disco to buy a record to listen to.
I go to the disco to buy.
This song is sung by a duet.
This building is very large.
All managers are notified.
Let him bring the order.
The nurse injected the people.
I will write on this desk.
I'm going to send my children to school.
I take my sword.
Your uncle's mirror is too big.
We are going to explode a bullet.
I'm going to bring a ball of yarn to knit.
Many students enrolled this year.
I'm going to cook on this stove.
Some foreigners live in Mexico.
I go to the factory to buy.
I'm going to buy a skirt for me to wear.
I go to the fandango and then I come.
I'm going to buy medicine at the pharmacy.
Do me a favor boy.
I'm going to congratulate my niece.
I'm going to make figures with the dough.
I go to school to sign for my daughter.
I'm going to play this flute.
I'm going to buy a light bulb.
My brother's photograph did not go well.
She is very pretty but she failed, now she has a son.
When you go to Tlapa you buy the brake for my horse.
The ash is very high.
I'm going to buy cookies to eat.
The hook with which Odilón cleans is very good.
This jack is no longer useful.
I take this pole so that the oxen will bite.
I'm going to start my gas.
I'm going to buy a cat.
I'm going to see my chickens because if not the hawks are going to eat them.
A very important turn came to me.
With this chalk I am going to paint.
I'm going to Mexico to see the government.
The weevil bites my corn a lot.
I'm going to put the cap on my son.
A lot leaks in my house.
The recorder you have is very large.
I'm going to record people.
Farm chickens are not tasty.
I need gravel for my house.
There are many gringos in Mexico.
I am going to cut guamuchil to eat.
I'm going to cut guavas for us to eat.
I'm going to play a song on this guitar.
The room where I live is very dirty.
Give me the ax to cut this firewood.
The flour to make bread has arrived.
The helicopter that comes there is very beautiful.
I'm going to bring the herbicide.
I'm going to buy ice to cool the soft drinks.
I'm going to climb that tree to cut fig to eat.
The thread with which I am mending my clothes broke.
Tell me a story.
What time are we at.
The hotel they are hardly building is very beautiful.
My huarache is already broken.
I'm going to run to kill iguana to eat.
Those of us who speak Mixtec are indigenous.
My son is studying at a boarding school.
I am going to invite all the peoples to come.
I'm going to give the lady an injection.
That boy plays a jarana.
There is a garden.
She bought many jícaras now that she went to Tlapa.
I want to drink fruit juice.
That boy's toy is a lot.
We call on all residents to focus because the meeting is about to start.
My son is not yet and he is already attending kindergarten.
The sheet you have in your house is already very old.
I go for a pen, then I come back.
Give me that pencil for me to write.
I'm going to put the butter in this can.
The milk is already cooked.
I lost my lens that I occupy.
I was scared by a lion.
I'm going to write some letters on this paper and I'm going to send it to my sister.
Tomorrow I am going to buy a bookcase.
I want a book to study because I already know how to read.
I already have a license to drive the new car I bought.
I'm going to see the lawyer to solve my problems.
I'm going to make sauce for me to eat with this blender.
I'm going to buy ten leagues.
Go get lemons to make fresh water.
Give me the sweet lemon to eat.
Turn on the flashlight that I just bought very well.
I bought my sister's hair ribbon.
This wolf is not brave.
I saw a madman on the street.
I am an announcer of "The voice of the mountain".
Turn on the light because it is very dark.
There is a new tire.
I already found the key to our door.
The new keychain is very beautiful.
My flowerpot is very pretty.
The teacher of my town is sick with diarrhea.
Give the bottle to the baby to suckle.
I'm going to buy a hose so I can get water.
I'm going to buy a blanket for me to wear.
I like to eat apple.
I'm going to tell my aunt to sew my clothes with the machine.
Lend me the typewriter.
How great is the sea.
I'm going to grab this butterfly for that child to play.
The ham I bought is very heavy.
I'm going to put this mask on.
I'm going to take my car to the mechanic.
I go with the doctor to heal myself.
The water meter that I use has broken down.
Here is the market, pass it on.
I'm going to sit down to eat at that table.
I'm going to go to school and I'm going to sit at the table.
I go to Mexico to work.
The microphone is very old.
I worked in the house of a millionaire.
I go to the mine to get wealth.
Tomorrow I will buy minsa for us to eat.
I go to mass to church.
I am sorry to speak Mixtec.
The mole we ate at my house was very tasty.
The mill of my town is new.
Coins are very heavy, so I don't want to load them.
My horse's saddle is very beautiful.
Tomorrow I am going to cut andirons to build my house.
I want to use a motorcycle.
I'm going to climb this wall.
Play a song for us to listen to.
Raúl is swimming in the river.
I go to the market to buy orange.
I really like to carry a razor.
I have a grandson.
I bought walnut to eat.
Today the man leaves for Oaxaca.
I will bring ocote to light.
I got a job.
We have to organize to deal with an issue.
I'm going to the hill to bring otate.
My stepfather is already dead.
Those people come from another country.
I'm going to dig soil with this shovel.
I'm going to buy a popsicle to eat.
I'm going to grab the dove that's already there.
Buy bread for breakfast.
He barely set up a bakery nearby.
The Filomena girl's new panties have already broken.
When I go to Tlapa I will buy a new pants.
I'm going to boil the potatoes to eat.
I'm going to buy a hundred paper.
I bought two packages of minsa.
I paid dearly for the fare.
Ubaldo is an intern in philosophy.
That time we went for a walk to that big hill.
I'm going to kill this duck to eat.
In my house I have a very nice peacock.
We are going to play ball on the court.
I go with the hairdresser to shave.
I'm going to buy pear to eat.
I bought a nice smelling perfume.
Give me permission, I'm going to play mom,
Oil is very expensive.
I'm going to dig with this pick.
I am going to buy paint to paint my house.
I need tweezers to bend this wire.
The pineapple that we are going to eat is very sweet.
Your piñata is very pretty.
I'm going to sleep on the floor.
With a gun they killed a man.
I'm going to write on the board.
My iron is out of order.
I'm going to grab this plastic.
I was very happy to go to the beach in Acapulco.
I'm going to see the police.
I'm going to see the polidor to see if he has other things.
I'm going to buy gunpowder to use.
Give me some ointment.
I'm going to open the gate.
The foot of the post is already rotting.
We are going to eat pozole in my house.
There is a presidency in my town.
I'm going to go over the bridge.
I sell very well in this position.
Give me pulque to drink.
There is cheese for sale in the market.
I'm going to buy radish to eat.
My radio is very old.
I'm going to buy a rake to shave off my beard.
I'm going to kill that mouse that got into that hole.
This lady's shawl is new.
Go buy iron at the repair shop where we went yesterday.
You already bought your new reflector.
A while ago I had a soda.
I'm going to turn on the refrigerator to cool down the water.
The rule I occupy was broken.
The grille on the priest's door is very strong.
The watch you are wearing is new.
I am going to rent where I am going to live.
I'm going to review what they taught me.
I'm going to see on my shelf if my comb is there.
Give me so much resistol.
The rifle Agustino bought is very beautiful.
Inside the wardrobe there are clothes.
Margarita's pencil sharpener is very large.
I'm going to see the priest in the church.
I will send you a greeting.
We are going to bring a watermelon.
Apolonia is very ill with measles.
I'm going to buy a hacksaw to cut this board.
I go with my papers to be sealed.
I go with my pig to where there is an animal called a stallion.
That young lady walks down the street.
The sawmill with which I work was broken.
I'm going to buy a zipper for my clothes.
I'm going to blow the whistle for the kids to come to class.
Give me a chair to sit on.
I'm going to sit in this chair.
That boy is very sincere.
Why are there so many soldiers in our town, mom?
There's a single woman there, I'm going to talk to her.
I'm single.
I'm going to sell my hat.
I will take this umbrella with me so I don't get wet.
Give me the blower.
I don't have a father-in-law.
I am very lucky because I won.
Give me that sweater to wear.
The substitute gentleman is in the municipal police station.
All the partitions fell.
I'm going to eat a taco.
My uncle plays the drum.
The gas tank I have in my house is very small.
I'm going in that taxi right now.
I really like drinking tea.
A technician is coming to vaccinate our cattle tomorrow.
I'm going to buy tile to make my house.
I'm going to buy shingles.
I like to eat tejocote.
I'm going to Tlapa to buy a cloth to wear.
I'm going to talk on the phone.
I got a very urgent telegram.
Television is very beautiful.
Give me that tenate for the tortillas.
Come tomorrow, I'll wait for you at the terminal.
I'm going to measure my terrain.
Luis is the treasurer and has the money.
The girl is very sick with tetanus.
We go to the store to buy sweets.
There is a peasant store in our town.
I'm going to see the tiger in its cage.
I'm going to make a dress for myself and I'm going to cut it with scissors.
A scissors got into my ear.
My tlacopete with which I work has already broken.
I'm going to buy a new towel.
He went to work and was able to buy a record player.
I'm going to squeeze this thyme.
I'm going to cut grapefruit for us to eat.
The church tower is very beautiful.
I'm going to buy a cake to eat.
The turtle walks very slowly.
When I was five years old I got sick with whooping cough.
I am going to see the town of Tototepec.
The fastest fallow farm tractor.
I'm going to put on my suit.
The train is black, and it goes there.
In "The voice of the mountain" a trio plays.
I won a trophy.
My dad's troje is already filled.
The trunk over there has already rotted.
Near my house there is a water pipe.
I'm going to put on my uniform.
I'm going to tie these clothes together.
My nails are already long.
I will use this huarache.
Give me that utensil.
I'm going to buy grapes to eat.
There is a vacancy where a person is requested.
Empty it into the pot.
That girl hesitates me a lot.
I go with my children to vaccinate them.
I'm going to go through this ford.
That man is very brave.
I want a water shutoff valve.
Let the cowboy go take care of my animals.
Give me that rod.
The rod to make my house is over.
I want petroleum jelly for my hair.
My neighbor is a bricklayer.
Shall I play bladder with you?
I'm going to buy a candle.
You buy a candle to take to church.
Go watch it.
Give me that bandage to tie my hand.
That man took poison.
I have a lot of sale.
Open the window to let air in because it is very hot.
I'm going to get air with this fan.
That color is green.
I'm going to buy purslane to eat.
I'm going to eat vegetables.
Give me my dress to wear.
I go on a trip and then I come.
I was bitten by a viper.
He put pure glass on his door.
It runs very wind.
I'm going to play a song on the violin.
The virgin who is in the church is very pretty.
My son is very sick from smallpox.
I'm going to pay my uncle a visit.
My eyesight hurts.
I'm going to take vitamin.
That woman is a widow.
I live in a house.
That bird can no longer fly.
We pass through a town that is near a volcano.
Add volume to the radio.
That boy is vomiting.
I'm going to buy a mare.
I like the yolk of the egg.
All the peppermint I planted was dried.
I have a son-in-law.
The white plaster is very beautiful.
I'm going to buy a yo-yo to play.
My yoke's yoke broke.
My team is no longer able to fallow.
No more grass for my horse.
I'm going to buy carrot.
The grazers pluck the cornfield a lot.
The ditch where the water passes is broken.
I go to the shoe store and return. I'm going to see the shoemaker.
I'm going to put my shoes on so I can run an errand.
I'm going to eat this sapodilla.
Go cut blackberry for you to eat.
I'll wait for you on the plinth in the afternoon.
In Mexico I saw a very large zoo.
The buzzard eats a lot of meat.
The fox eats a lot of chickens.
The skunk stinks very ugly.
That boy works with his left hand.
