One day, the little white chicken was digging in the corral, when suddenly he saw a very large and beautiful grain of corn.
"Who wants to plant this corn?"
asked the little white chicken.
'Not me,' said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
`` Me less, '' said the cat.
"Well, yes," said the little white chicken.
And he planted the corn grain with great care.
Then the sprouts came out, and the corn began to grow.
Who wants to water this corn?
Asked the little white chicken.
'Not me,' said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
"And I less," said the cat.
"Well, I'll water it," said the little white chicken.
And she watered it very well watered.
When the ears came out, the little white chicken said
"Who wants to peel the ears and grind the corn?"
Asked the little white chicken.
"Not me," said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
`` And less of me, '' said the cat.
`` Well, I will, '' said the little white hen, and she alone shelled them and ground the corn in the mill.
--Who will make the cakes with this flour?
Asked the little white chicken.
"Not me," said the goose.
"Neither do I," said the mouse.
`` And less of me, '' said the cat.
"Then I will make them," said the chicken.
and she made the cakes and baked them.
When taking the delicious cakes out of the oven, the little white chicken asked: - Who wants to eat these delicious cakes?
`` Me, '' said the goose.
"Me too," said the mouse.
`` And so do I, '' said the cat.
"No, gentlemen, that as the rest, I will do alone," said the little white chicken. And she ate them.
They say that a rabbit was walking and reached the foot of a prickly pear cactus.
and also at that time the coyote arrived and found the rabbit.
And the coyote said to the rabbit: "Now I'm going to eat you, because I'm very hungry," said the coyote.
The rabbit said to the coyote: "No, man, don't eat me, because my meat is not tasty, because I'm a small man."
If you want, let's eat these tunas because they are very sweet and tasty, ”said the rabbit to the coyote.
Then the coyote said, "Okay, well, I'll eat if you prepare it."
Then the rabbit removed a prickly pear and prepared it.
And the rabbit said, "Open your mouth and close your eyes, and I put a prickly pear in your mouth," said the rabbit to the coyote.
And the rabbit took a prickly pear that he had already prepared. And put it in the coyote's mouth.
Then the coyote believed, and closed his eyes again and opened his mouth. And the rabbit put another prickly pear on it.
But how could the coyote know that it was not a prickly pear with thorns?
And he swallowed them with the thorns and they went to his belly.
and the thorns remained in his throat, and many thorns were caught in his mouth.
And so he ran and wallowed. And the rabbit withdrew away.
Nicanor came to town riding on his horse Alazán.
On his haunches he carried a fat pig that he sold cheaply at the fair.
Filled with joy, he was going to buy medicine for his sick wife and clothes for his children.
But he found his friend Anastasio who invited him to have a drink.
They entered a canteen where they smoked, drank and played.
They began by taking a mezcal to the health of the patient. And they took many more afterwards until the alcohol intoxicated them.
Without knowing what he was doing, Nicanor went to play dice and the deck.
He lost the money he got for the fat pig. And he lost the Sorrel, who was his companion and friend.
On foot, staggering, without medicine for his wife, without dresses for his children, he returned to his ranch.
Grandfather Wenceslao, who was walking with his grandchildren, found him like this.
"Dear children," he exclaimed, "see what alcohol does."
Flee from drunkenness which is the worst of vices.
Never play a deck of cards the health of a loved one, the bread of the home or the product of their work.
A chick was caught walking, and as he passed under a tree a leaf fell on his tail.
The chick ran to his mom and said:
"Mom, the sky is falling."
-How you know?
The hen asked the chick.
"I know, because a piece fell on my tail," said the chick.
"Let's go tell the turkey then," said the chicken.
Then the two animals left and came to where the turkey was.
"Mr. turkey, the sky is falling," said the chicken.
-As you know?
The turkey asked the chicken
"The chick warned me," said the chicken.
"And you, chick, how do you know?"
The turkey asked the chick.
—I know why a piece fell on my tail
Said the chick.
"Well, let's go warn the heron," said the turkey.
The three animals left and arrived at the heron's house.
-Mr. Heron, the sky is falling, ”said the turkey.
"How do they know?"
The heron asked.
"The chicken told me," the turkey replied.
"And you, hen, how do you know?"
The heron asked him.
"The chick told me," said the chicken.
—And you, chick, how do you know?
The heron asked.
"I know, because a piece fell on my tail," said the chick.
"Let's go tell the fox then," said the heron.
The four animals went to where the fox was.
The heron said:
-Mr. fox, the sky is falling.
-How you know? Asked the fox.
"The turkey told me," said the heron.
"And the chicken said to me," said the turkey.
"And the chick said to me," said the chicken.
"And I know," said the chick, "because a piece fell on my tail."
Then the fox became very happy and said: "Let's go to my cave where I live."
There I will keep them all.
The animals went to the fox's cave.
And one by one the fox ate them, with bones and feathers too. All of this went through the silly chick.
There was a man named Pascual. He had a son who took care of the sheep that he had.
The father warned his son that the times he takes care of the animals do harm.
The boy said to his father: - I do not hurt because I take very good care of the sheep.
It's another boy who does it and you accuse me. Poor little me.
"They tell me that you are the child who does it."
So you better stay and work while I go with the animals to the bush. It is possible that the owner of the cornfield will come and take an animal or bring him to jail, and I do not have the money to get him out of jail, ”he said to his son.
"Okay, I'm tired of taking care of animals," said the boy.
And he stayed and worked.
Then the man went with the animals but could not bear to take care of them.
He was tired and sat down. He didn't know he was sleepy and he closed his eyes and fell asleep.
The animals went to a cornfield and they were hurting when a policeman came and took the animals to jail.
Pascual woke up and went to look for the sheep but he did not find them because they already went to jail.
He then returned home to ask his wife and son if the animals had arrived.
They said to him: —You are a child because you lost the sheep. Go to jail.
Perhaps justice has found them doing damage to the cornfield and they have taken them, ”they told him.
He went very sad to the municipality and asked them if he had found the sheep.
A man said to him, "I found them doing damage to the cornfield."
Don't be afraid, let one of them stay and I'll kill him for the Cinco de Mayo party. You cannot pay the fine for them because the wrong they did was too much.
One of the sheep remained, and the others went with him to his home. He was very embarrassed in front of his wife and son for having lost one of his sheep for being a sleeper.
The jicaritas (song)
Jicarita, jicarita
Of that town where I lived
Colored jicaritas
And smelling of aleli.
I passed for the first time
Through the balcony door
And a jicarita de agua
I asked you as a favor.
There you gave me the poison
The poison of your love
In the painted gourd
Scented like a flower.
Jicarita, jicarita
Of that town where I lived
Colored jicaritas
And smelling of aleli.
Give me back the lost good,
Of the love that I gave you,
In the painted gourd
Scented of alelí.
