Tale of a boy and a lion
I'm going to tell you the story of a boy and his parents.
Once the boy's parents were talking about how lazy their son was.
And they decided that the man would go to the mountain to abandon him there.
The boy realized what they had decided to do. And the man said to him:
—Take your rope and we are going to look for firewood and then we return, because your mother no longer has firewood.
The boy said yes, he took an orange, and they left.
The boy thought, "How about I go and leave and can't find my way back?
I'm going to leave the orange peel where we go so that it finds its way back. "
He dropped bits of the orange peel on the path as they walked, and thought again:
"But if the goats pass, they will eat it, and I will no longer be able to find the way."
Then he grabbed several small stones and took a good look at what they were like.
And he left them on the road, and he and his dad kept walking.
They arrived at the mountain and his father said to him:
"Sit here, I'm going to get the firewood and when I yell or scream, you'll know I'm there."
And I will scream from where I am. The boy replied:
"Okay," and she believed him and sat down. And the lord left.
It was a long time after her dad was gone. As he did not return, the boy thought:
"I'll go find him, but if I can't find him, then what shall I do?"
It was and there was no one in the bush. He screamed a lot while looking for him, but there was no one.
And so he stayed in the bush.
The next day, a lioness passed by and said:
-What are you doing here? The boy replied:
"I'm waiting for my dad, but he's not here because he abandoned me and left."
Then the lioness replied:
"If you want, come with me." You can take care of my children, and I will pay you.
the boy said yes.
They went and arrived at the lioness's house, and the cubs were very happy that the boy had come to take care of them.
so the child raised them.
A day came when the boy said to the lioness:
"I would like to return to my town, but what will I do?"
I will not be able to find my house, since I no longer remember the path that I arrived on.
But I do want to return.
the lioness said to him:
—Take one of my children to accompany you. Because if not, how about you meet someone who hits you?
all the little lions said:
—I, I want to go.
He chose the one he loved the most when he cared for them.
And they set out for their town.
they saw a place with a light, and it was a house of thieves.
They approached and saw that there was a lot of money there.
And the lion said to the boy:
"We are going to kill them, and we will keep the money."
So they came to the thieves' house and the thieves wanted to kill the boy and the lion.
But the lion hid to find out what the thieves wanted to do with the boy so that they would not harm him.
So the lion and the boy killed the thieves.
There were four of them and three died. Only one stayed alive.
The boy said to him:
"Show me where the key is to the place where the money is, and we won't kill you."
The thief replied:
-Here it is. Do not kill me. Let me go, he showed you all the places where the money was.
Then the lion killed him, and then the lion, with his tail, took all the thieves outside and threw them into a ravine.
So they kept all the money.
And they really got very rich.
After this they continued on their way to the boy's house, who later started a business of all kinds of sewing.
When they arrived, they found their mom and dad. They were very sorry that they had abandoned him in the bush.
And they asked him to forgive them.
But he said it was no longer possible because what they did to him hurt him very much.
And even though he had money, he wasn't going to give his parents a bit.
His parents saw that there was a lot of cloth in the boy's house, and that he always sewed.
Then his parents said to him:
—We are your parents; Why don't you forgive us?
We are very sorry for what we did to you. But he said to them:
-Not.
For me, my parents are already dead, and you are not telling me the truth; They are cheating on me. They only ask for forgiveness because I have money.
And he and the lion were very rich.
