He is a man
He writes
He digs a hole
He cuts the maguey
The horns of the ox.
She sows seeds.
He cannot see because he is blind.
She goes to the plaza.
You are going to buy eggs.
to buy
He buys bananas.
He eats a banana.
He has a role,
He has firewood,
He writes,
He wipes his forehead with his handkerchief
The fly has wings, but the louse does not and you
neither.
his sister left
many of them left
The banana does not have ears, but it has a peel.
She's sick.
Her sister is not sick.
It's okay.
You are pretty, but not me!
What is she doing?
The water is boiling.
What did she do with the water yesterday?
Boiled it.
We will drink boiled water.
do
doing
did
boil
boiling
boiled
The rabbit ran and jumped a lot.
He is tired now.
Wants to sleep.
Is sleeping.
The rabbit slept, and now it is jumping again.
sleep
sleeping
slept
jump
jumping
jump
This man is called Lalo.
He went to the market.
He bought bananas.
He bought tomatoes and onions.
I buy bread.
He searched for beef, but couldn't find it.
He bought some goat meat.
He bought everything he needed to eat.
She also bought paper to write a letter to her son.
He finished his shopping.
He has returned to his village.
purchase
I buy
to buy
Her name is Juana.
He is looking for his children.
He is calling the children.
He called them and called them, but they did not come.
Why?
They were playing and they didn't hear her,
to call
calling
I call
The boy is going to study.
The boy studies.
The boy studied.
Let's study!
He will obey.
He obeys.
He obeyed.
Let's obey!
The animal will enter.
The animal enters.
The animal entered.
Let's go in!
I'm going to talk.
I speak.
I talked.
Let's talk!
Will you eat, or will you eat?
You.
is eating.
You ate.
Let's eat!
The boy is going to get wet.
The boy is getting wet.
The boy got wet.
Let's get wet.
He is going to ride the animal.
He is riding the animal.
He got on the animal.
Let's get on the animal!
I'm tired. The bear is a very large animal.
It has thick legs and a short tail.
Its claws are long and sharp, with them the bear digs the ground.
The bear's fur is woolly and black or brown.
At the north pole, where it is very cold, there are also white-skinned bears when they are young and then yellowish.
Bears like to sleep during the winter.
They look for a hollowed-out tree or a cave, in which they get into and go to sleep.
They sleep all winter.
Their young are born in the winter.
They have one or two young.
When they are born, they are as small as a kitten, and nurse from the mother.
When spring arrives, the bears, which are already two or three months old, wake up and leave the tree or the cave.
They walk through the forest.
The mother bear shows them what to eat and teaches them where to find food.
Bears eat honey, ants, fruit, roots, grass, and mice.
With their claws they catch fish.
The mother bear also teaches the bears how to climb trees.
They are very playful animals.
They play with the mother and with the other bears.
Benito Juárez Benito Juárez was born to Zapotec parents in San Pablo de Guelatao in the State of Oaxaca on March 21, 1806.
At the age of three he was orphaned in the care of his paternal grandparents and brothers.
He spent his childhood as a shepherd, but when he was 12 years old he went to Oaxaca, where he began to study.
He learned to speak Spanish well.
In 1834 he received the title of licentiate.
Later he was Governor of the State of Oaxaca.
When Santa Anna was a dictator, Juárez had to leave the country.
Later he returned to fight for the Reformation.
In 1858 Zuloaga revolted against the Reformation and Comonfort left him the presidency of the Republic.
Juárez had to flee to Guanajuato with his ministers.
There he was in great danger when soldiers came to kill him.
The soldiers stopped in front of Don Benito Juárez and pointed their rifles at him.
Then, Don Guillermo Prieto covered him with his own body and shouted:
-Raise those weapons!
The brave do not murder!
One by one the soldiers lowered their rifles.
This is how Prieto saved Juárez's life.
The leaders of the Conservative Army were Miguel Miramón, Leonardo Márquez and Tomás Mejía.
Everywhere in the country there was poverty and war.
Miramón was proclaimed president by the conservatives.
He received a loan of 15 million pesos from a bank in France.
No matter how hard he fought, he could not beat the liberals.
On January 1, 1861, the Constitutional Army entered the capital under the command of General Jesús González Ortega, and fifteen days later Juárez established his government.
Juárez fought alongside the Imperialist Army and his soldiers killed Maximiliano and his generals Miramón and Mejía in 1867.
On August 14, 1867 there were new elections in which Juárez was elected president.
In 1871 there was another election and Juárez was reelected president.
Juárez gave the people of Mexico many just laws called the Laws of the Reformation.
He said that we are free to choose the religion we want.
He also said that it is very important for all children to attend school and study.
He said that magazine, book, and newspaper writers should be free to write what they think.
There are many other good things that he left us, laws of freedom and justice.
On July 18, 1872 Benito Juárez died.
A woman went to Mexico City with her parents. His uncle stayed in his town to take care of the house. The woman spent five years in the city, but never attended school and could not read or write.
To earn money she worked as a maid in a house. He bought clothes and many things and his situation improved. After five years, he returned to his town.
Two or three months after he returned home, he received a letter from his father. Neither she nor her uncle could read. She wanted to know what the letter said. She wanted to find someone to read the letter to her to find out if something was wrong with her parents or what the letter said.
The woman thought: -What shall we do? How can we know what the letter says? He tried to open the letter but did not. What will he say? I thought.
"Let's see if we can find someone who can read the letter to us," he said to his uncle. He went out into the street. In the distance he saw an old man walking with a cane. He ran fast and caught up with him. He begged her to read the letter to him.
He agreed to read the letter and said:
- I'll read it immediately to see what it says. The man looked at the envelope and then opened it.
He stared at the letter. He looked at her over and over.
Then he began to shout: - Boo, hoo, hoo. The woman asked him:
-What does the letter say? What happens to my parents? Is my father sick? Or is my mother sick? Or my brother? What does the letter say?
- No, it's something more important, said the man.
-What happens then? Have they died? What is it? She said.
- No, it's something worse, he replied.
- What is worse? She asked.
- It is nothing, only that neither you nor I can read. So we can't know what the letter says, the man said.
It is very hot in the desert. It is very dry and it never rains. There is only sand and dry bushes. There is very little water. In places where there is water, palm trees grow.
So how do people travel in the desert? What animal carries the load? The donkey cannot live in such a hot and dry place. But God has created a very special animal called the camel. This animal can live in the hot desert and carry heavy loads.
Rich men who travel in the desert have up to 1,000 camels. Some camels carry up to 350 kilos of cargo. Camels can go three or four days without drinking or eating.
Why does this animal last up to four days without drinking water? Because it has a bag inside that looks like a honeycomb. When you drink water, it is stored in that bag, and your body slowly absorbs it. So you can go four days without feeling thirsty.
Plus, she has two humps on her back where she stores fat, so she doesn't have to eat every day.
Sometimes there are sand storms in the desert. The sand flies everywhere. The camel's eyes are not like the eyes of other animals. He has two eyelids in each eye. One of these eyelids is very thin and the camel can see through it as if its eye was open; just as we can see through the glass. You can also close your noses so the sand doesn't get in. Thanks to this, the sand does not get into your eyes or noses.
The camel is stubborn and bad; but it is the best beast of burden for the desert. The camel can also be ridden and used for plowing.
Camels run very fast. Some can run 165 kilometers in one day.
From camel hair, people make ropes, clothes, and shawls. With their skin they make huaraches and straps; they eat its meat and drink its milk. God has made
a very special animal that can survive in the desert.
A coyote, a fox and a mayate got together to make their cornfields together.
- Let's make our cornfields together. We will make your cornfield first. We will work on it a full day. Then we will work a full day in mine, the coyote said to the fox.
-Well, if so, I agree, replied the fox. The coyote said the same to the Maya and the Maya also accepted.
The next day they met and made the fox field. They worked hard until it was time to eat.
- Oh, now I am going to look for something to eat because we are already hungry, said the fox to the coyote.
- Go on, said the coyote.
The coyote and the mayate continued working on the fox field. The fox ran away. He found a chicken and ate it. Then he picked up a larger one and carried it to the coyote. The coyote ate and was satisfied. The mayate did not eat meat because he only eats leaves. Eat the leaves of the oaks. Only the coyote and the fox ate meat. In the late afternoon they returned to their homes.
- See you tomorrow, they said and left.
The next day they got back together to work on the coyote cornfield.
- It would be better if we worked in my cornfield, said the Mayate to the fox.
- It's okay. We will work on your cornfield, said the fox and the coyote.
So first they worked in the cornfield of the mayate. Soon it was time to eat.
- I am going to get something to eat because it is late and we are hungry, said the Maya.
-Go, the coyote said to the mayate.
The coyote and the fox started laughing because the mayate is very small.
- Today we are not going to eat because the mayate is very small, you will not find anything, what can you do to get what to eat? He won't find anything, said the coyote.
But the mayate ran away and came to where a large deer was lying, near a deep ravine. With a leap the mayate got into the ear of the deer and buzzed and buzzed until it attacked the deer. He ran, fell to the bottom of the ravine, and died. Then the Maya returned to where the coyote and the fox were working.
- Excuse me, but we have to go eat. They know that I am very small and I cannot bear their food. I already got it but I can't load it. That is why we are going for them to eat, said the Mayate.
-What will we do? I got a lot of meat for his food, said the mayate.
-Well come on, said the coyote and the fox.
They went down the road. The mayate, as he already knew the way, was ahead. It was well remembered where the deer was lying. When they arrived, the coyote and the fox ate meat until they were full. Then they went back to work. As evening fell they said,
- Let's go because it's too late. We will return to work tomorrow, they said. They left. The coyote and the fox went home, but the mayate stayed in a tree. They all slept. The next day they met again early. They made the cornfield of the coyote. In the afternoon they were very hungry.
-Oh, now I'm going to look for something to eat because we're already hungry, said the coyote, and ran away.
He came to a place where there were many goats. The pastor was there taking good care of his goats. He walked from there to here taking care of the goats and would not let them go away. The coyote was spying and spying, but found no way to grab a goat. He got nothing to eat, absolutely nothing. He was so hungry that he felt very sick to his stomach. As it was late he returned to where the others were working.
- You have to forgive me because I didn't get anything to eat. The shepherd took good care of his goats. He was walking with his dog. I couldn't do anything to get something. I couldn't get anything to eat. Excuse me because I couldn't find anything to eat, said the coyote to the fox and the mayate.
-Aa, there is no remedy, go to your house because it is late, the Mayate and the fox told him.
The fox set out and walked there and around looking for something to eat.
The mayate was not worried because there were many oaks and he eats the leaves of those trees. The coyote was also very hungry and at night he went out again in search of something to eat, but found nothing again.
