Tales of Men who like to Hunt
The Rabbit Hunter
I'm going to tell you the story of a man who hunts rabbits.
Wherever we live there is a man who likes to hunt rabbits.
He spends all day looking for rabbits.
When he leaves he goes until he finds one.
He looks at all the bushes to see where they are lying.
When he sees them, he kills them. If he doesn't see it lying down, the rabbit gets up and runs; but it chases it.
Nothing else stops a little and kills it; but if not, it runs away and leaves.
During the day, look for rabbits, squirrels, pigeons or kill even snakes, because it gives you great pleasure to shoot.
When he walks in the day, he looks at all the wheat fields, beans or milpitas where they walk.
If he finds a place where they are doing harm, he goes looking for them at night with his lamp.
He leaves at eight or nine, he goes until ten or eleven and when he is far away he returns.
Kill anything you see nearby, be it rabbit, pintail, raccoon, opossum, armadillo, or even skunk.
The Deer Hunter
They say that what I am going to tell you happened to a man:
He left with a lamp; but maybe he didn't know that the cattle were around.
He saw eyes sparkle and thought it was a deer.
He shot him; but when he went to see him he realized that he was a bull.
I do not know if I would notify the owner of the bull, but the fact is that the owner of the bull knew who had killed his bull and sued the man with the authority.
The man went to jail and had to pay what the bull was worth.
I did not see it, but I heard that they told it so.
That happened to that man because of wanting to eat meat and going to kill a bull.
The Men Who Went to Hunt Deer
I'm going to tell you a story. One year we went hunting deer.
We were six. It was Easter and when we left the town it was four in the afternoon, because in the town there were some companions who went with us.
It was late when we passed by La Cañada and that is why we went down the rock at night. There, another companion was waiting for us, with whom all six completed.
We slept there and when the day dawned we continued on.
The last one to join us was the one who knew where deer had been.
and he was the one who took us. When we arrived, he told us how we were going.
He showed us all the roads where deer passed.
Three older men were carrying weapons and three of us were kids who went to the herd.
We went once, but there was nothing.
We went the second time and then two deer came out, one male and one female.
They passed near where the middle shooter who was cutting them was. He threw him, but he didn't hit him.
Then they climbed to where the other top shooter was. He threw them, but he just hit one, because they were running very hard.
He killed the female and the male left.
When we all get there, we look for each other's trails. When we found him, the one who did know did not say:
- We are going to see behind that hill, because I believe that it must have gone there.
We loaded our deer and left, we arrived at the place he told us and when we went to take him out there was nothing left.
Then we went down the guamil, but it was so thick that we could only go down with a lot of work with our deer.
We go through a ravine. Then we went up and left again for La Cañada.
We were all taking turns loading the deer until we reached the town.
There we clean it, we divide the meat. We valued it and we ate it roasted. It was very tasty. Maybe you would have liked a bit, but when you came it was over.
This was the story of those who went hunting deer.
