A WAY TO TAKE CARE IN CASE OF ILLNESS
I will tell you about a disease that attacks people.
There are many kinds of diseases.
Some are tremendous, and it is not possible to recover soon from them when they catch you.
There are times when the disease is on the skin, and other times it is in the stomach.
With some people the disease is on the skin;
but with other people it is inside the body.
We may start coughing,
that we have diarrhea, all this due to the same disease.
We may also vomit blood from the disease.
This is a tremendous disease.
It is called tuberculosis; but we call it "cuehe ityi", or disease that leaves dry.
After some time you can die of that disease.
Whether inside the body or on the skin, it is the same disease, and it can stay on our skin or enter our body.
This was the way I got sick of the skin. I was sick for a long time.
The Center had to cure me for a long time with medicines before I was relieved.
At the beginning of the disease, skin ulcers developed and became infected.
However, I was not healing well, I just used a little medicine, and that was not the correct medicine for my illness.
I got really sick and that's when the Center started to heal me.
But they had to give me injections for a long time before it healed.
He had been in bed for three months before going to the Center.
I was cured there for six months and it was until then that I was cured. I was in bed for six months due to this illness.
I am telling you all this so that you know how terrible this disease is. They gave me over a hundred injections before I healed.
It is a tremendous disease.
However, those who take medicine as it should be can heal. But if you don't make an effort to take the medicine, you won't be able to heal.
It really is a tremendous disease, because over time you can die from it.
This is the reason why I tell you this, so that you take good care of yourselves, you who are already adults; and so that they take care of their children if they become ill with this disease.
If you get ulcers or have a cough, it is best to go to the Center and tell them what symptoms you have, and the doctor will tell you which medicine is good for you, or for your children.
I also want to tell you to make the effort to eat well and thus you will be in good health.
Because, even if they are being cured with injections, it will not hurt to eat chili, eggs, meat, cheese, milk, and beans.
It is also good to take a medicine called Protea.
It is taken as chocolate. This dust gives us strength.
Ask at the Center where they can get it.
They should also be encouraged to eat cabbage, and should plant radish.
We must eat the vegetables that mestizos eat, because those vegetables make us strong.
So if you plant them, you don't have to spend money to buy them.
They can be sown in a pot, or in a high place where animals cannot reach them. Remember to water them.
This is what I am talking about, because you must eat what gives you strength all the time, not only when you are sick.
A POOR MAN WHO DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO FISH
One day he and I went fishing, but the water where we were going to fish was full of herbs.
So I told him:
Can you put up with the itching that these herbs produce?
And he replied: Yes, I can hold on.
He said that, because he thought the itch wouldn't be too bothersome.
So we went to put on old clothes to get into the water.
When we got into the water, I went ahead, pushing the herbs where I was going.
He followed behind me.
So I started to prepare a place to hang the net.
I placed the forks and hung the net on them.
Then I said to him: Go from that side and I will go through this other. Okay, ”he said.
We went to the place where we were going to enter the water again.
It was a bit far and when we got there, he started scratching.
So we got into the water and I said to him:
Are you itchy
Yes, I have a lot! -He said.
So I told him:
You should not continue if you cannot bear the itch.
No, come on, ”he said. I can hold on very well. I really want to eat fish broth. Well, ”I said.
And we continued stirring the water, where we were going.
I was very happy, because I was used to this.
But instead he was just stirring the water with one hand, while scratching with the other.
So we got to where the network was and he said to me:
I'm going out now. Poor me.
I can't stand the itch anymore.
If you want to give me fish, that's fine.
But if you don't want to give me, that's fine too. I'm going to leave before I go crazy with this itch.
So I told him:
Do not worry.
There will be fish for you to make broth.
Okay, he said, as you say.
He got out of the water and went to a flat place where donkeys wallow.
There was nothing but hot earth and he lay there.
It began to roll in the dirt, until it was completely white with dirt. I recognized it with work.
Then he said to me:
I will never return to this lake.
That's what he told me and kept scratching.
Then he went on to say:
I have almost no fingernails from scratching.
And this is the story of what happened to us.
