Let's be forewarned
There is a disease that is very dangerous. It's called tuberculosis
but in Mixtec we say "disease of weakness" or "cough that does not go away."
Many people suffer from this dangerous disease although they do not know what it is called.
We say it is a dangerous disease because it kills us
He doesn't leave us until we die.
It does not heal by itself.
Throughout this region there are people suffering from this disease.
There are distant towns where there is not much tuberculosis, but it is because of the cold it is there.
But around here, there is a lot of that disease although we don't realize it, because, when we started,
it shows no signs of being a dangerous disease.
Therefore, it is better that we be very careful and that we be forewarned so that it does not attack us.
Both children and adults are in danger of catching it.
So let's pay attention to what this brochure says
so that we know what the disease is like and how to heal ourselves.
What makes us sick?
What makes us sick is a kind of microbe.
Microbes are very small animals, so small that they cannot be seen with the eyes.
but only with an apparatus called a microscope.
The place where they like to stay and do harm is the chest, because there are the bags where the air we breathe enters and leaves.
. So sometimes, when suffering from tuberculosis, our chest hurts, because there the microbes are eating and doing harm.
They are also found in the saliva we spit out after coughing. When we cough, they also come out in the steam of the cough, and thus the disease is spread.
People in the house where the sick person is can also get sick, because this is how the disease passes from the sick to the healthy.
or bad is that at first it is not clear that one is sick.
So we don't notice that little by little we are going from bad to worse.
How is the disease recognized?
How can you know that you are suffering from tuberculosis?
In this way: it has its signs.
First. it is noted that the patient coughs, and sputum and throat from his throat
What he spits is white, but when the disease is stronger, you can also see mixed blood.
Sometimes we cough, but within a week or two or three it will go away.
This is probably not tuberculosis, but an ordinary cough.
But if we cough for several months and it doesn't go away, it could be tuberculosis,
because that is his sign. But there are more signs.
We feel a fever, although not much.
The time when it gives us more fever is in the afternoon.
At night, sometimes we sweat, we feel sweat from the waist up.
Also, if we work hard, we get tired soon; we have no strength.
And we don't want to eat much, we don't have an appetite.
So little by little we lose weight
That is why it is called in Mixtec "disease of weakness."
If we are very skinny and weak and we spit blood
the disease is known to worsen; It started a long time ago with us and is already progressing.
And if a ball comes out in the jaw or neck, and matures like a boil, then we know that the case is even more serious.
The patient also sometimes gets diarrhea that does not want to stop even if he takes a lot of medicine.
He also wants medicine for the tuberculosis that causes it.
If there are signs of tuberculosis, what will we do?
If there are signs of the disease and we are thinking a lot and we do not know if it is really tuberculosis,
then it is better that we go to the Health Center in Acatlán.
There they will take an x-ray by means of X-rays
The x-ray is a portrait of what is inside the chest, and it is taken out with a device from the Health Center.
But nothing happens to us when the portrait is taken like this.
You don't feel anything. It is like when we are portrayed with an ordinary camera, it does not hurt. We stop at the device, and that's it.
So if we want to know for sure if it is tuberculosis or, no, we go to the Health Center,
We pay what an x-ray is worth, and they take it out.
It is not expensive.
And if there are also children and we want to know about them, you can too.
It is called the Mantoux test.
This test is done for children twelve and under.
Nothing happens to them and we are going to know something about the health of children.
How is one cured?
Before, there was no medicine that effectively cured this disease, and that's why people died.
But now there are medicines that can end the disease in our body
So there is hope.
We need to know if it really is tuberculosis, and if we recognize it
then we will take the necessary pills, receive the indicated injections, and eat good foods with vitamins.
When starting to heal, we must remember that the best thing in healing is to take the pills daily without fail.
The doctor can tell us how many pills we should take each day, and in what way.
The pills are taken at mealtime, and if you like, with a little water.
He doesn't want a diet. You can eat some spicy, but you should not miss good food.
Beans, pumpkins, meat, eggs, milk, bananas, oranges, guavas, avocados, black sapotes are all good foods for the sick.
If we eat pure tortillas with salt, they are not enough to give us strength to fight the disease.
He wants stronger food.
Does the medicine want to diet?
This disease does not require that we keep diet in the way that many do-stop eating good food. Although we take medicine, we can also eat all kinds of good food.
Sometimes, being sick with tuberculosis, we don't feel like eating. We feel weak and tired. The thing is that to heal we need to eat or take what are called vitamins.
They can be purchased from the doctor.
But if there is no money to buy them, we must eat the best and most varied food possible, because the foods also have vitamins, not only the pharmacy.
For example, there are many vitamins and proteins in eggs.
So when we eat well, we receive the benefit of many vitamins and it comes out almost the same as if you bought them.
If the sick person is a woman and is going to have a child,
don't be afraid to heal, because it doesn't hurt. She must also take the pills, inject, and eat well, like the others.
If we suffer from this disease, we should not work hard or keep awake, because if we do, it is easier for the disease to worsen
It is better to rest a lot and sleep well, and this will facilitate the removal of the disease.
Do you want a long time to heal?
Sometimes it doesn't cost that much to heal from this disease.
We take the pills daily for four, or five months, and we inject ourselves on the days indicated by the one who directs our healing.
But there are also cases where it takes up to half a year or a year, or a year and a half before one can heal.
But we should not be discouraged or stop healing. Let's continue with the pills every day.
We have to be patient, because this disease does not heal quickly.
How can we prevent other people from getting it?
We do not want the disease to spread. In itself, tuberculosis is a contagious disease.
We don't want other people in our house or our friends to get sick.
Therefore, the patient should not spit anywhere because the disease is also in the saliva. When saliva or gargajo dries, the wind picks it up. If you get into the mouth or nose of a healthy person, you can also get sick.
When sneezing the patient, or when coughing, it is better to cover the mouth with a tissue or cloth handkerchief, so that the air does not fill with the droplets of saliva that come out when sneezing or coughing.
The frets of the patient should be separated and should not be occupied by the others.
Dishes, spoons, wells, and everything the patient uses to eat are thoroughly cleaned.
After eating, it is best to boil water and put the patient's dishes in the boiling water. This is how the microbes that make us sick die.
The person caring for the patient should wash their hands after caring for them. They are washed with soap, which in this case is better than alcohol.
Why is it better to heal soon?
But if we dilate and do not heal, we become more serious, and then, really, it is difficult to find a remedy;
only with God is the remedy.
Therefore, it is better not to leave the disease, because when it is just beginning, healing is much easier.
But if we dilate a lot and the disease progresses, it is much more difficult to heal, and it takes a long time.
But if you're just getting started, you want less time to relieve yourself.
If you have a healthy person, and you think there is a danger of getting TB, you better get vaccinated.
There is a vaccine that helps people not get sick from tuberculosis.
