So be imitators of God as beloved children.
And walk in love, as Christ also loved us, and gave himself for us, an offering and sacrifice to God in a pleasant odor.
But fornication and all impurity, or greed, not even be named among you, as it suits the saints;
neither indecent words, nor foolishness, nor rude stories, which are not convenient; but rather thanksgiving.
Because you know this, that no fornicator, or impure, or miser, who is idolatrous, has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words, because for these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
So do not be partakers with them,
for you were once darkness; but now you are light in the Lord; walk like children of light
(because the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, and justice and truth),
checking what is pleasing to the Lord.
And do not participate in the unsuccessful works of darkness, but rather denounce them.
Because it is shameful to even talk about what they do in secret.
But all things are visible when exposed to light; because what manifests everything is light.
For this reason he says: Wake up, you who sleep, and rise from the dead, and Christ will give you light.
Watch carefully, then, how you walk, not as fools, but as wise,
Making good use of time, because the days are bad.
Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And do not get drunk with wine, in which there is debauchery; rather, be filled with the Spirit,
speaking among you with psalms, and with hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and praising the Lord in your hearts;
always giving thanks to God and Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Submit to one another in the fear of God.
Married women are subject to their own husbands, as to the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church; and he is the savior of the body.
So, as the church is subject to Christ, so also married women are to their husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,
to sanctify it, having purified it in the washing of the water by the word,
In order to present it to himself, a glorious church that had no stain or wrinkle or anything like it, but was holy and spotless.
So also husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
For no one ever hated his own body, but sustains and cares for it, just as Christ does the church;
because we are members of his body, his flesh and his bones.
For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be close to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.
Great is this mystery, but I say this regarding Christ and the church.
Therefore, each one of you also love his wife as himself; and the wife respect her husband.