I, therefore, prisoner of the Lord, I beg you to live in a manner worthy of the vocation with which you have been called,
with all humility and meekness, with patience, enduring each other in love,
striving to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
There is only one body and one Spirit, just as you too were called in the same hope of your vocation;
one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
one God and Father of all, who is above all, for all and in all.
But each of us has been granted grace according to the measure of Christ's gift.
Therefore, it says: WHEN HE ASCENDED TO THE HIGH, HE BROUGHT A GUEST OF CAPTIVES, AND GAVE GIFTS TO MEN.
(This expression: He ascended, what does it mean, but that He had also descended to the depths of the earth?
The one who descended is also the same who ascended much higher than all the heavens, in order to fill everything.)
And He gave some to be apostles, to other prophets, to other evangelists, to other pastors and teachers,
in order to train the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edification of the body of Christ;
until we all come to the unity of faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, to the condition of a mature man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ;
so that we are no longer children, shaken by the waves and carried here and there by every wind of doctrine, by the cunning of men, by the deceitful tricks of error;
but speaking the truth in love, let us grow in all aspects in the one who is the head, that is, Christ,
from whom the whole body (being well adjusted and united by the cohesion that the joints provide), according to the proper functioning of each member, produces the growth of the body for its own edification in love.
This I say, therefore, and I affirm together with the Lord: that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk, in the vanity of their mind,
darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance in them, because of the hardness of their hearts;
and they, having become callous, indulged in sensuality to greedily commit all manner of impurities.
But you have not learned Christ this way,
if you really heard him and have been taught in him, according to the truth that is in Jesus,
that as for your previous way of living, you should divest yourself of the old man, who corrupts himself according to deceitful desires,
and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
and you put on the new man, who, in the likeness of God, has been created in the righteousness and holiness of the truth.
Therefore, putting falsehood aside, SPEAK TRUTH EACH ONE WITH YOUR NEIGHBOR, because we are members of each other.
BREATHE, BUT DO NOT SIN; Don't let the sun go down on your anger
Don't give the devil a chance.
He who steals, do not steal more, but rather to work, doing with his hands what is good, so that he has to share with the one in need.
Let not a bad word come out of your mouth, but only one that is good for edification, according to the need of the moment, so that it imparts grace to those who listen.
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Let all bitterness, anger, wrath, yelling, slander, and all malice be taken from you.
Rather be kind to one another, merciful, forgiving one another, just as God forgave you in Christ.