Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children,
and walk in love, as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
But sexual immorality and all impurity or greed are no longer named among you, as befits saints;
Neither is indecent conduct or nonsense or rude jokes, things that are inappropriate but, rather, thanksgiving.
Because they know this very well: that no immoral or impure or miser, who is an idolater, has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words, because because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
So, don't be partakers with them
for although they were once darkness, now they are light in the Lord. Walk like children of light!
For the fruit of light [a] consists of all goodness, justice, and truth.
Approve what is pleasing to the Lord
and have no share in the unsuccessful works of darkness, but rather report them.
Because it is embarrassing to even mention what they do in secret.
But when they are denounced, all things are exposed by light; Well, what makes everything visible is light.
That is why he says: "Wake up, you who sleep, and rise from the dead, and Christ will give you light!" [B].
Look carefully, then, at how they behave; not as reckless but as prudent,
redeeming time because the days are bad.
Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And do not get drunk with wine, for there is debauchery [c]. Rather, be filled with the Spirit,
speaking among you with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs; singing and praising the Lord in your heart;
always giving thanks for everything to God and Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
and submitting to one another in the fear of Christ:
Married women [d] are subject to their own husbands as to the Lord,
for the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, and he himself is the savior of his body.
So, as the church is subject to Christ, so are wives to their husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives as well as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her,
in order to sanctify it, having purified it in the washing of the water with the word,
to present it to himself a glorious church that has no stain or wrinkle or the like but is holy and without fail.
Similarly, husbands must love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Because no one ever hated his own body; rather, it sustains and cares for it just like Christ to the church,
because we are members of his body [e].
For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh [f].
This mystery is great, but I say it regarding Christ and the church.
Therefore, each of you love your wife as yourself, and the wife respect her husband.