So I, a prisoner in the Lord, exhort you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called:
with all humility and meekness, with patience, enduring each other in love,
diligently seeking to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
There is one body and one Spirit, just as you have been called to one hope of your calling.
There is only one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
one God and Father of all who is over all, through all and in all.
Yet to each one of us grace has been conferred according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
This is why it says: Going up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to men [a].
But what does this mean that it rose, unless it had descended [b] also to the lowest parts of the earth?
The one who descended is the same who also ascended above all the heavens to fill everything.
And he himself made up some apostles, other prophets, other evangelists, and other pastors and teachers,
in order to train the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edification of the body of Christ,
until we all reach the unity of faith and knowledge of the Son of God, until he is a man of full maturity, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
This, so that we are no longer children, tossed adrift and carried everywhere by all winds of doctrine by the ploy of men who, to deceive, cunningly use the tricks of error
but that, following the truth with love, we grow in everything towards the one who is the head: Christ.
From him the whole body, well arranged and intertwined by the cohesion that all ligaments provide, receives its growth in accordance with the activity provided to each of the members to build themselves up in love.
This I say and insist on the Lord: that they no longer conduct themselves as the Gentiles conduct themselves, in the vanity of their minds,
having a darkened understanding, removed from the life of God by the ignorance that is in them, due to the hardness of their hearts.
Once all sensitivity was lost, they indulged in sensuality to avidly commit all kinds of impurities.
But you have not learned Christ like that,
if in truth they have heard him and have been taught in him, just as the truth is in Jesus.
Regarding your old way of living, get rid of the old man who is flawed by deceptive desires;
but renew yourself in the spirit of your mind
and clothe yourselves with the new man who has been created in the likeness of God in righteousness and holiness of truth.
Therefore, having given up the lie, speak the truth each to your neighbor [c], because we are members of one another.
Get angry, but don't sin [d]; don't let the sun go down on your anger
nor give place to the devil.
He who stole, do not steal any more, but work hard, doing with your own hands what is good to have what to share with those in need.
No obscene word comes out of his mouth but one that is good for edification, as needed, to impart grace to those who hear.
And do not sadden the Holy Spirit of God in whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Take away from you all bitterness, anger, wrath, yelling and slander, along with all evil.
Rather, be kind and merciful to one another, forgiving one another as God also forgave you in Christ.