For this reason I, Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus in favor of you Gentiles ... [a].
No doubt you have heard of the administration of God's grace that has been conferred on me for your benefit.
By revelation this mystery was made known to me, as I have briefly written before.
Therefore, by reading it, you will be able to understand what my understanding is in the mystery of Christ.
In other generations this mystery was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to their holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit,
Namely, that in Christ Jesus the Gentiles are joint heirs, incorporated in the same body and partners in the promise through the gospel.
From this I became a minister, according to the gift of God's grace that has been conferred on me, according to the action of his power.
To me, who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace has been conferred on me to announce to the Gentiles the gospel of the inscrutable riches of Christ
and to clarify to all [b] what is the administration of the mystery that from eternity had been hidden in God, who created all things.
All this is so that now the multiform wisdom of God may be made known through the church to the principalities and authorities in the heavenly places.
according to the eternal purpose that he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord.
In him we have freedom and access to God with confidence through faith in him.
Therefore, I ask you not to be discouraged by my tribulations for you, for they are your glory.
For this reason I bend my knees before the Father,
from whom every family in heaven and on earth takes its name,
so that, according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be empowered by his Spirit in the inner man
for Christ to dwell in their hearts through faith so that, being rooted and grounded in love,
you are fully capable of understanding, together with all the saints, what is the width, length, height and depth,
and to know the love of Christ that surpasses all knowledge so that they may be filled with all the fullness of God.
And to him who is powerful to do all things much more abundantly than we ask or think, according to the power that works in us,
to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus, for all generations of all ages, forever. Amen.