So be imitators of God as beloved children;
and walk in love, just as Christ loved you and gave himself for us, an offering and sacrifice to God, as a fragrant aroma.
But that immorality, and all impurity or greed, are not even mentioned among you, as befits the saints;
no obscenities, no foolishness, no rudeness, which are not appropriate, but rather thanksgiving.
For surely you know this: that no immoral, impure, or miser, who is an idolater, has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
Therefore do not be partakers with them;
for before you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord; walk like children of light
(because the fruit of light consists of all goodness, justice and truth),
examining what is pleasing to the Lord.
And do not participate in the sterile works of darkness, but rather, unmask them;
because it is shameful even to talk about the things that they do in secret.
But all things become visible when exposed by light, for all that is made visible is light.
For this reason it says: Wake up, you who sleep, and rise from the dead, and Christ will give you light.
Therefore, be careful how you walk; not as foolish, but as wise,
Making good use of time, because the days are bad.
So do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And do not get drunk with wine, in which there is dissolution, but be filled with the Spirit,
speaking among you with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs, singing and praising the Lord with your heart;
always giving thanks for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God the Father;
submitting one another in the fear of Christ.
Women are subject to their own husbands as to the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church, being himself the Savior of the body.
But just as the church is subject to Christ, women must also be subject to their husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it,
to sanctify it, having purified it by washing the water with the word,
in order to present it to himself, a church in all its glory, without stain, wrinkle or the like, but holy and immaculate.
So too should husbands love their wives, as well as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Because nobody ever hated his own body, but he sustains and cares for it, as well as Christ to the church;
because we are members of his body.
THIS IS WHY MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND HIS MOTHER, AND WILL JOIN HIS WOMAN, AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH.
Great is this mystery, but I speak with reference to Christ and the church.
In any case, each of you also love his wife as himself, and that the wife respect her husband.