Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER (which is the first commandment with promise),
SO THAT YOU ARE GOOD, AND THAT YOU HAVE A LONG LIFE ON EARTH.
And you, parents, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Servants, obey your masters on earth, with fear and trembling, with the sincerity of your heart, like Christ;
not to be seen, as those who want to please men, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart.
Serve in good will, as the Lord and not men,
knowing that whatever good thing each one does, he will receive from the Lord, whether he is a servant or free.
And you, masters, do the same with them, and leave the threats, knowing that their and your Lord is in heaven, and that for Him there is no respect of persons.
Otherwise, strengthen yourselves in the Lord and in the power of his strength.
Put on the full armor of God so that you can stand firm against the devil's schemes.
Because our fight is not against blood and flesh, but against principalities, against powers, against the powers of this world of darkness, against the spiritual hosts of evil in the heavenly regions.
Therefore, take all the armor of God, so that you can resist in the bad day, and having done everything, be firm.
Stand firm therefore, BELT YOUR WAIST WITH TRUTH, COVERED WITH THE BREAST OF JUSTICE,
and shoes the FEET WITH THE PREPARATION OF THE GOSPEL OF PEACE;
in everything, taking the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the fiery darts of the evil one.
Take also the HELMET OF SALVATION, and the sword of the Spirit which is the word of God.
With all prayer and supplication pray at all times in the Spirit, and so, watch with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints;
and pray for me, so that a word may be given to me when I open my mouth, in order to make known without fear the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am a chain ambassador; that in proclaiming it I speak boldly, as I must speak.
But in order that you too may know my situation and what I do, Tychicus, beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make everything known to you,
whom I have sent to you precisely for this, to know about us and to comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love.
