Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Honor your father and mother (which is the first commandment with promise),
so that you may do well and live a long time on earth [b].
And you, parents, do not provoke your children to anger, but raise them in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Servants, obey those who are your masters on earth with fear and trembling, with sincerity of heart, like Christ;
not serving only when you are looking at them, as those who want to be well with men, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God with encouragement.
Serve willingly, as the Lord, not as men,
knowing that the good that each one of them will receive from the Lord, be it servant or free.
And you, masters, do the same to them, leaving the threats because you know that the same Lord of them and of you is in heaven, and that there is no distinction of persons before him.
For the rest [c], strengthen yourselves in the Lord and in the power of his strength.
Put on the full armor of God, so that you can face the devil's intrigues;
because our fight is not against blood or flesh, but against principalities, against authorities, against the rulers of these darkness, against evil spirits in the heavenly places.
For this cause, take all the armor of God so that you can resist in the bad day and, after having accomplished everything, stand firm.
Stand firm, then, girded with the belt of truth, clothed in the breastplate of righteousness
and shod their feet in preparation to proclaim the gospel of peace.
And above all, arm yourselves with the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the fiery darts of the evil one.
Take also the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication, watching with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints.
And also pray for me, so that when I open my mouth words are conferred to me to confidently make known the mystery of the gospel
for which I am a chain ambassador; So that I may speak bravely, as I must speak.
Now, so that you too know how I am doing and what I am doing, Tychicus, beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will inform you all.
For this very reason I have sent him to you so that you may know about us and that he may encourage your hearts.
Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love [d].