As for you, you were dead in your trespasses and sins,
in which they once walked according to the current of this world and the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience.
Once upon a time we all live among themselves in the passions of our flesh, doing the will of the flesh and of the mind; and by nature we were children of anger, like the others.
But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us,
Even though we were dead in crimes, he gave us life together with Christ. By grace they are saved!
And together with Jesus Christ, he raised us up and made us sit in the heavenly places
to show in the coming ages the superabundant riches of his grace, by his goodness to us in Christ Jesus.
For by grace they are saved [through] through faith; and this is not yours because it is a gift from God.
It is not by works, so that no one can boast.
Because we are made of God, created in Christ Jesus to do the good works that God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.
Therefore, remember that in the past you Gentiles in the flesh were called uncircumcision by those of the so-called hand circumcision in the flesh.
And remember that at that time they were without Christ, separated from the citizenship of Israel and alien to the covenants of the promise, being without hope and without God in the world.
But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far have been drawn by the blood of Christ.
Because he is our peace, who made us one of both. He broke down in his flesh the barrier of division, that is, hostility,
and he abolished the law of the commandments formulated in ordinances to create in himself of the two men a single new man, thus making peace.
He also reconciled both to God in one body through the cross, killing enmity on it.
And he came and announced the good news: peace for you who were far away and peace for those who were close,
since through him we both have access to the Father in one Spirit.
Therefore, they are no longer foreigners or strangers but fellow citizens of the saints and members of the family of God.
They have been built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the cornerstone.
In it the whole building, well assembled, grows until it becomes a holy temple in the Lord.
In it you also are built together for dwelling of God in the Spirit.