Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise,
so that it may go well with you, and be of long life on earth.
And you, parents, do not provoke your children to anger; but bring them up in discipline and admonition from the Lord.
Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with simplicity of your heart, like Christ;
not serving the eye, like those who please men, but as servants of Christ, doing with encouragement the will of God;
serving with good will, as to the Lord, and not to men;
knowing that the good that each one does, will receive from the Lord, be it slave or be free.
And you, masters, do the same to them, leaving the threats, knowing that their Lord and yours is in heaven, and that for him there is no respect for people.
For the rest, my brothers, strengthen yourselves in the Lord and in the strength of his power.
Put on all the armor of God, so that you can stand firm against the snares of the devil.
Because we have no fight against blood and flesh, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the celestial regions.
Therefore, take all the armor of God, so that you can resist in the bad day, and having finished everything, be firm.
Stand firm, therefore, with your loins girded with the truth, and clothed in the breastplate of righteousness.
And shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
above all, take the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the fiery darts of the evil one.
And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
praying at all times with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints,
and for me, so that, by opening my mouth, I may be given a word to boldly reveal the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am a chain ambassador, so that I may boldly speak of him, as I must speak.
And so that you also know my affairs, and what I do, Tychicus, beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make everything known to you,
to whom I have sent you for this very purpose, so that you may know about us, and to comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with sincerity. Amen.