Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God: To the saints who are in Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ,
as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we might be holy and blameless before Him. In love
he predestined us for adoption as sons to himself through Jesus Christ, according to the pleasure of his will,
in praise of the glory of his grace which he has freely imparted upon us in the Beloved.
In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins according to the riches of his grace
that has made us abound. In all wisdom and discernment
He revealed to us the mystery of his will, according to the pleasure that was proposed in him,
with a view to a good administration in the fulfillment of the times, that is to say, to gather all things in Christ, both those that are in heaven and those that are on earth. At
we have also obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,
so that we, who were the first to wait on Christ, may be in praise of his glory.
In him also you, after hearing the message of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, and having believed, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise,
which is given to us as a guarantee of our inheritance, with a view to the redemption of God's acquired possession, in praise of his glory.
For this reason I too, having heard of faith in the Lord Jesus among you, and of your love for all the saints,
I do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers;
asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in a better knowledge of Him.
My prayer is that the eyes of your heart will be illuminated, so that you know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
and what is the extraordinary greatness of his power towards us who believe, according to the efficacy of the force of his power,
who worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,
far above all principality, authority, power, dominion and every name that is named, not only in this century but also in the one to come.
And he subdued everything under his feet, and gave him the head above all things to the church,
which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in everything.