I, therefore, a prisoner in the Lord, I beg you to walk worthy of the vocation with which you have been called,
with all humility and meekness, patiently enduring each other in love;
solicitous in keeping the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
A body and a Spirit; as you were also called to the same hope of your vocation;
a Lord, a faith, a baptism,
a God and Father of all, who is above all, and for all and in all of you.
But to each one of us was given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Wherefore it says, Going up on high, he led the captives captive, and gave gifts to men.
(And that of which it ascended, what is it, but it had also descended first to the lowest parts of the earth?
The one who descended is the same who also ascended above all the heavens to fill everything.)
And he himself constituted apostles; and to others, prophets; and to others, evangelists; and to others, pastors and teachers;
in order to perfect the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edification of the body of Christ,
until we all come to the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, according to the stature of the fullness of Christ;
so that we are no longer fluctuating children, carried by every wind of doctrine, by the ploy of men who, to deceive, cunningly use the tricks of error,
but, speaking the truth in love, we grow in all things in him who is the head, namely, Christ;
from whom, the whole body, well adjusted and linked together by all the joints that support it, according to the appropriate function of each member, grows, building itself in love.
This, then, I say and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk like other Gentiles, who walk in the vanity of your mind,
having a darkened understanding, oblivious to the life of God by the ignorance that is in them, by the hardness of their hearts;
who, after losing all sensitivity, surrendered themselves to lust to greedily commit all kinds of impurity.
But you have not learned this way about Christ,
if indeed you have heard him, and have been taught by him, according to the truth that is in Jesus,
As for the past way of living, get rid of the old man, who is flawed according to deceitful desires,
and renew yourselves in the spirit of your mind,
and put on the new man who is created according to God in the justice and holiness of the truth.
Therefore, leaving the lie, speak truth each one with his neighbor, because we are members of each other.
Be angry, but do not sin; Don't let the sun go down on your anger
neither give place to the devil.
He who stole, steal no more, but work, doing with his hands what is good, so that he has what to give to those who suffer need.
No corrupted word comes out of your mouth, but only one that is good for the necessary edification, so that it will give grace to the listeners.
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Take away from you all bitterness, and anger, and anger, and screams, and slander, and all malice.
Rather, be kind to one another, merciful, forgiving one another, just as God forgave you in Christ.