And he gave you life, when you were dead in your crimes and sins,
in which you once walked according to the current of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now operates in the children of disobedience,
among whom all of us also lived in another time, walking according to our carnal desires, doing the will of the flesh and of the thoughts; and we were by nature children of wrath, as well as others.
But God, who is rich in mercy, for the great love with which he loved us,
even though we were dead in sins, he gave us life together with Christ (by grace you are saved).
And together with him he raised us up, and also made us sit in heavenly places with Christ Jesus,
to show in the centuries to come the abundant riches of his grace in his goodness to us in Christ Jesus.
For by grace you are saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God;
not by works, so that no one can boast.
Because we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.
Therefore remember that in the past you Gentiles in the flesh were called uncircumcision by the so-called circumcision made by hand in the flesh;
and that at that time you were without Christ, far from the citizenship of Israel, and alien to the covenants of the promise, without hope and without God in the world.
But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away, have been made close by the blood of Christ.
Because he is our peace, who made one of both peoples, tearing down the intermediate wall of separation,
abolishing enmities in their flesh, the law of the commandments expressed in ordinances, to create in themselves of the one and only one new man, making peace,
and through the cross to reconcile both in one body with God, killing enmities on it.
And he came and announced peace to you who were far away, and to those who were near,
for through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father.
So you are no longer foreigners or upstarts, but fellow citizens with the saints, and members of the family of God;
built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, the main cornerstone being Jesus Christ himself,
in whom the whole building, well coordinated, grows to be a holy temple in the Lord;
in whom you also are built together for dwelling of God in the Spirit.