Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints and faithful in Christ Jesus who are in Ephesus [a]:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places.
Likewise, he chose us in him from before the foundation of the world so that we would be holy and unblemished before him.
In love he predestined us through Jesus Christ for adoption as his children, according to the pleasure of his will,
for the praise of the glory of his grace that he freely gave us in the Beloved.
In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our transgressions, according to the riches of his grace
who made us abound in all wisdom and understanding.
He has made known to us the mystery of his will, according to the approval that was proposed in Christ,
as a plan [b] for the fulfillment of the times: that in Christ all things be gathered under one head, both those in heaven and those on earth.
In him we also receive inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who performs all things according to the counsel of his will,
so that we, who have first hoped in Christ, may be in praise of his glory.
In him also you, having heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and having believed in it, were sealed with the Holy Spirit that had been promised,
who [c] is the guarantee of our inheritance for the redemption of what is acquired, for the praise of his glory.
For this reason, I too, having heard of their faith in the Lord Jesus and of his love for all the saints,
I do not cease to give thanks for you, reminding you in my prayers.
I ask that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in full knowledge of him;
the eyes of his understanding having been illuminated so that they may know what is the hope to which he has called them, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
and what the immeasurable greatness of its power towards us who believe, according to the operation of the dominion of its force.
God exercised it in Christ when he raised him from the dead and made him sit at his right hand in the heavenly places,
above all principality, authority, power, lordship and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the age to come.
Even all things God put under his feet and made him head over all things for the church,
which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in everything.
