The farmer and his son
Once there was a sower who had a son.
One day there was a party in a nearby town,
and they thought to go buy things that they lacked.
Then they went out and
They brought an animal to carry things.
On the way, the animal went alone, and they went on foot.
On the way they found two men
that they came in the same way as them.
These men started talking to each other,
saying:
-It does not look good that these men are walking and their animal is alone.
"He is not carrying any cargo," they said.
Then the old man asked his son what he thought of what they said.
And her son said:
Really, what they said is true - he said.
So he ordered his son to get on the animal.
When they had gone a little further, they found two men who
they said:
-How foolish is this man who is walking!
Your son is young. Let him get down and walk.
But instead of him walking, he is riding
They said.
Then the man asked his son what he thought of what these men had said.
He replied and said:
"It is true what they say," he said.
So she told her son to get off the animal and he got on.
When they had gone a little further, they found two men again,
they started saying like this:
- It doesn't look good, the big one is mounted and his son is walking.
Wouldn't it be nice if
will he walk and let the animal carry his son?
Better for him to walk because he's already used to work,
and the young man, his son, does not know how to work, "they said.
So he asked his son what he thought
from what those men had said.
Then her son replied saying:
"It is true what they say," he said.
Then he got on the animal. So, the two of us
They got on the animal. When they had gone a little,
then they found other people who said like this:
- It does not look good that the two are mounted on that poor animal.
He is very skinny; no
will endure walking with them riding on it
they said.
So he spoke to his son saying:
"I beg you, son, to tell me what we should do now;
I don't know what else we can do. We already did everything, I think
- He said to his son
Then his son replied:
-Dad, would it be better if we hang the donkey on a stick and carry it?
So they lifted the donkey on a stick and kept going carrying it. And people would laugh when they saw them.
This story teaches us:
That we should not simply do what people think is good, but what we think is good.
Because we are never going to please people with our actions.
