Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, and brother Timothy: To Philemon our beloved brother and collaborator,
and to Sister Apia, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church that is in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
because I hear of your love and the faith that you have towards the Lord Jesus and towards all the saints;
and I pray that the communion of your faith becomes effective through the knowledge of all the good that is in you through Christ.
For I have come to have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been comforted by you, brother.
Therefore, although I have a lot of freedom in Christ to order you to do what is convenient,
However, because of the love that I have for you, I beg you, being as I am, Paul, an elder, and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus,
I beg you for my son Onesimus, whom I have fathered in my prisons,
which was once useless to you, but now it is useful to you and me.
And I have sent it back to you in person, that is, as if it were my own heart,
Who would have wanted to retain me, to serve me in your place in my prisons for the gospel;
But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that your goodness was not as if by obligation, but of your own free will.
Because maybe this is why he stayed away from you for a while, so that you could receive him again forever,
not as a slave, but as more than a slave, as a beloved brother, especially for me, but how much more for you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
If you have me for a partner, accept it as you would accept me.
And if it has harmed you in any way, or owes you something, charge it to my account.
I, Pablo, write this with my own hand; I will pay it (for not telling you that even you owe me yourself).
Yes, brother, let me enjoy this benefit of you in the Lord; recreate my heart in Christ.
I write to you, confident in your obedience, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
And at the same time, prepare me also accommodation, because I hope that by your prayers I will be granted.
Epaphras, my prison companion in Christ Jesus, greets you;
also Marcos, Aristarco, Demas and Lucas, my collaborators.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
