Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, and brother Timothy; Philemon our beloved and our collaborator,
Sister [A] Appia, Archippus our fellow soldier, and the church that is in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I always thank my God making mention of you in my prayers;
because I hear of the love and the faith that you have towards the Lord Jesus and towards all the saints,
so that the communion of your faith has become effective in the full knowledge of all the good that is in us [b] for the glory of Christ.
For I had [c] great joy and encouragement for your love, for the hearts of the saints, O brother, have been comforted through you.
Therefore, although I have great confidence in Christ to order what is convenient,
rather I intercede in love — being as I am, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner of Christ Jesus;
I intercede with you regarding my son Onesimus whom I have fathered in my prisons.
Once he was useless to you, but now he is useful [d] to both you and me.
I send it to you again [e], to him who is my own heart.
I wanted to keep him with me so that you could serve me in my prisons for the gospel.
But without your consent, I didn't want to do anything, so that your goodness was not as if it were out of obligation but rather in goodwill.
Well, maybe for this reason he stayed away for a while, so that you can get it back now forever;
no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother, especially for me but with more reason for you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
So, if you have me as a partner, receive it as myself.
If something hurt you or owes you, put it on my account.
I, Pablo, write it with my own hand: I will pay it; for not telling you that you also owe me yourself.
Yes, brother, I would like to have this benefit from you in the Lord: Comfort my heart in the Lord!
Having trusted your obedience, I write to you knowing that you will do even more than I say.
At the same time, also prepare accommodation for me because I hope that through your prayers I will be granted.
Epaphras, my prison companion for Christ Jesus, greet you,
and my collaborators Marcos, Aristarco, Demas and Lucas.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit [f].