Paul, prisoner of Jesus Christ, and brother Timothy, to the beloved Philemon, our collaborator,
and to the beloved sister Apia, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church that is in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God, always remembering you in my prayers,
because I hear of the love and the faith that you have towards the Lord Jesus, and towards all the saints;
so that the communication of your faith is effective in the knowledge of all the good that is in you through Christ Jesus.
Because we have great joy and consolation in your love, because for you, brother, the hearts of the saints have been comforted.
Therefore, although I have a lot of frankness in Christ to send you what is convenient,
rather for love I beg you, being as I am, Paul already old, and now, also, prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I beg you for my son Onesimus, whom I have fathered in my prisons,
the one that was once useless to you, but now it is useful to you and me,
the one that I send you again; you therefore receive him as my own heart.
I would like to keep him with me, so that instead of you he would serve me in prisons for the sake of the gospel;
But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that your favor would not be as if by obligation, but voluntary.
Because perhaps for this reason he has withdrawn from you for some time, so that you would receive him forever;
not as a slave, but as more than a slave, as a beloved brother, mostly for me, but how much more for you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
So if you have me for a partner, receive him as myself.
And if something damaged you, or owes you, put it on my account.
I, Pablo, write it from my hand, I will pay it; for not telling you that even you owe me too.
Yes, brother, may I receive some benefit from you in the Lord; comfort my heart in the Lord.
I have written to you trusting in your obedience, knowing that you will do even more than I tell you.
And likewise, prepare me also accommodation, because I hope that by your prayers I will be granted.
Epaphras, my prison companion for Christ Jesus, greet you,
Marcos, Aristarco, Demas and Lucas, my collaborators.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.