For the rest, brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To me, in truth, it is not bothersome to write the same things to you, and it gives you security.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of mutilation.
For we are circumcision, we who serve God in spirit, and glory in Christ Jesus, having no confidence in the flesh.
Although I also have to trust meat. If anyone seems to have to trust the meat, I more:
circumcised on the eighth day, of the lineage of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as for the law, Pharisee;
as for zeal, persecutor of the church; as for the justice of the law, blameless.
But all the things that were for me gain, I have considered loss for the love of Christ.
And certainly, I still consider all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Jesus Christ, my Lord, for the love of whom I have lost everything, and I have it as trash, to win Christ,
and to be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is by law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness that is of God by faith;
in order to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the participation of his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,
if in any way I came to the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already achieved it, or that it is already perfect; but I continue, to see if I achieve what I was also achieved by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I do not claim to have already achieved it myself; but one thing I do: certainly forgetting what lies behind, and reaching out to what lies ahead,
I press on to the goal, to the prize of the supreme call of God in Christ Jesus.
So, all of us who are perfect, we feel the same; And if you feel otherwise, this will also be revealed to you by God.
But in what we have reached, we follow the same norm, we feel the same thing.
Brothers, be imitators of me, and look at those who walk according to the example you have in us.
Because there are many who walk, of whom I told you many times, and even now I say crying, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ,
whose end will be perdition, whose god is the womb and whose glory is in his shame; who think only of the earthly.
But our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
the one who will transform the body of our humiliation, to be similar to the body of his glory, by means of the power with which he can also subject himself to all things.