For the rest, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It does not bother me to write the same thing to you again, and for you it is a reason for security.
Beware of dogs, beware of bad workers, beware of false circumcision;
because we are the true circumcision, we worship in the Spirit of God and we glory in Christ Jesus, not putting trust in the flesh,
although I myself could also trust the meat. If someone else thinks they have reason to trust meat, I do much more:
circumcised on the eighth day, of the line of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as for the law, Pharisee;
as for zeal, persecutor of the church; as for the justice of the law, found irreproachable.
But all that for me was gain, I have considered as loss for the love of Christ.
And even more, I consider all things as loss in view of the incomparable value of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have lost everything, and I consider him as rubbish in order to win Christ,
and be found in Him, not having my own righteousness derived from the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness that proceeds from God on the basis of faith,
and to know Him, the power of His resurrection and participation in His sufferings, becoming like Him in His death,
in order to reach the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already achieved it or that I have already become perfect, but that I keep on going, in order to be able to achieve that for which I was also reached by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I do not consider myself to have already achieved it; but one thing I do: forgetting what's left behind and reaching out to what's ahead,
I press on toward the goal to obtain the prize of the supreme call of God in Christ Jesus.
So all of us who are perfect have this same attitude; and if you have a different attitude in something, God will also reveal it to you;
however, let us continue to live by the same standard that we have reached.
Brothers, be imitators of me, and observe those who walk according to the example you have in us.
Because many walk as I have told you many times, and now I tell you even crying, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ,
whose end is perdition, whose god is their appetite and whose glory is in their shame, who think only of earthly things.
Because our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
which will transform the body of our state of humiliation into conformity to the body of his glory, by the exercise of the power that he still has to hold all things to himself.