Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God every time I remember you,
always in all my prayers, I pray for all of you with joy,
for your brotherhood in the gospel, from the first day until now,
being convinced of this, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ;
how it is right for me to feel this of you all, because I have you in my heart; and in my prisons, and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers of grace with me.
Because God is a witness to me how I love you all with the deep love of Jesus Christ.
And I ask this in prayer: that your love may abound even more and more in knowledge and in all discernment,
so that you may appreciate the best, so that you may be sincere and blameless for the day of Christ;
full of fruits of justice, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And I want you, brothers, to know that the things that have happened to me have resulted in the greater progress of the gospel;
in such a way that my prisons in Christ have been evident in all the praetorium, and to all the others;
and most of the brothers in the Lord, taking courage from my prisons, dare much more to speak the word without fear.
And some, in truth, preach Christ out of envy and strife; but others, of good will.
Some announce Christ by contention, not honestly, intending to add affliction to my prisons;
but the others for love, knowing that I am placed for the defense of the gospel.
So? That nevertheless, in any case, either by pretext or by truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, and I will still rejoice.
Because I know that by your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will result in my liberation;
according to my fervent longing and hope that in nothing I will be ashamed; rather, with all boldness, as always, now Christ will also be magnified in my body, either by life or by death.
Because for me, living is Christ, and dying is gain.
But if living in the flesh is fruitful for the work, then I don't know what to choose;
because for both things I feel compelled, having the desire to leave and be with Christ, which is much better;
but staying in the flesh is more necessary because of you.
And convinced of this, I know that I will stay, that I will still stay with all of you, for your benefit and joy of faith,
so that your joy may grow for me in Christ Jesus, for my visit to you again.
Only that you behave as is worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that, that is, that I will see you, or that I am absent, I hear from you that you are standing in the same spirit, fighting unanimously for the faith of the gospel,
and not intimidated at all by those who oppose, which for them is certainly a sign of perdition, but for you of salvation; and this, from God;
because it is granted to you by Christ, not only that you believe in him, but also that you suffer for him,
having the same conflict that you have seen in me, and now you hear that there is in me.