So, my brothers, loved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
I plead with Evodia and I urge Syntyche to be of one mind in the Lord.
Likewise, I also ask you, faithful companion, to help those who worked together with me in the gospel, with Clement as well, and to the other collaborators of mine, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say to you: rejoice!
Your kindness is known to all men. The Lord is near.
Be anxious for nothing; but let your requests be made known to God in all prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving.
And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will keep your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
For the rest, brothers, everything that is true, everything that is honest, everything that is just, everything that is pure, everything that is kind, everything that is of good name; if there is any virtue, if there is something worthy of praise, think of this.
What you learned and received and heard and saw in me, this you do; and the God of peace will be with you.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that your care of me has at last flourished; of which you were still solicitous, but you lacked the opportunity.
I am not saying it because I am destitute, because I have learned to be content with what I have.
I know how to live humbly, and I know how to have abundance; I am taught in everything and everything, both to be satiated and to be hungry, both to have abundance and to suffer need.
I can do everything in Christ who strengthens me.
However, you did well to participate with me in my tribulation.
And you also know, O Philippians, that at the beginning of the preaching of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church participated with me in giving and receiving, only you.
Because even to Thessalonica you sent me over and over for my needs.
It is not that I look for handouts, but that I look for fruit that abounds in your account.
But I have received everything, and I have abundance; I am full, having received from Epaphroditus what you sent, pleasant smell, accepted sacrifice, pleasing to God.
My God, then, will provide you with everything you lack according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
To God, therefore, and our Father, be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Greet all the saints in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
All the saints greet you, and especially those who are from Caesar's house.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.