Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus: To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, including the bishops and deacons:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God whenever I remember you,
always praying with joy in each of my prayers for all of you,
for your participation in the gospel from the first day until now,
being convinced of precisely this: that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus.
It is just that I feel this about all of you, because I carry you in my heart, because both in my prisons and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, all of you are participants with me of grace.
Because God is a witness to me how much I miss you all with the deep love of Jesus Christ.
And I ask this in prayer: that your love may abound more and more in true knowledge and in all discernment,
so that you choose the best, so that you are pure and blameless for the day of Christ;
filled with the fruit of righteousness that is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And I want you to know, brothers, that the circumstances in which I have been, have resulted in the further progress of the gospel,
in such a way that my prisons for the cause of Christ have become notorious throughout the Praetorian Guard and all others;
and that the majority of the brothers, trusting in the Lord because of my prisons, have much more courage to speak the word of God without fear.
Some, indeed, preach Christ even out of envy and rivalry, but others also do it willingly;
these do it for love, knowing that I have been designated for the defense of the gospel;
those proclaim Christ out of personal ambition, not sincerely, thinking of causing me distress in my prisons.
So what? That in any case, whether pretended or in truth, Christ is proclaimed; and in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice.
Because I know that this will result in my deliverance through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
According to my longing and hope that in nothing I will be ashamed, but with all confidence, even now, as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, either by life or by death.
Well, for me, living is Christ and dying is gain.
But if living in the flesh means fruitful work for me, then I don't know which one to choose,
because on both sides I feel compelled, having the desire to leave and be with Christ, because that is much better;
and yet continuing in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
And convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with all of you for your progress and joy in faith,
so that your deep satisfaction for me may abound in Christ Jesus because of my visit to you again.
Just behave in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come to see you, or remain absent, I can hear that you are standing in one spirit, striving together for the gospel faith;
in no way intimidated by your adversaries, which is a sign of perdition for them, but of salvation for you, and this, of God.
Because it has been granted to you for the love of Christ, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for Him,
suffering the same conflict that you saw in me, and that now you hear that it is in me.
