So if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any incentive in love, if there is any fellowship in the Spirit, if there is any deep affection and compassion,
complete my joy so that you think the same way, having the same love, unanimous, thinking about the same thing.
Do not do anything out of rivalry or vainglory, but humbly esteem others as superior to yourselves;
not everyone considering only their own interests but each considering [a] also the interests of others.
There is in you this way of thinking that was also in Christ Jesus:
Existing in the form of God, he did not consider being equal to God as something to hold on to;
but he stripped himself, taking the form of a servant, making himself like men;
and, being in the condition of a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, and death on the cross!
Therefore, God also exalted him to the utmost and gave him the name that is above all names;
so that in the name of Jesus every knee will bow to those in heaven, on earth, and under the earth;
and every tongue confess to the glory of God the Father that Jesus Christ is Lord.
So, beloved ones, just as you have always obeyed — not only when I was present but much more now in my absence — take care [b] of your salvation with fear and trembling;
because God is the one who produces in you both wanting and doing to fulfill his good will.
Do everything without gossip and strife,
so that you may be blameless and simple, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in which you shine as luminaries in the world,
retaining the word of life. In this way I can glory in the day of Christ that I have not run or worked in vain.
On the contrary, even though it is to be poured out as a liquid offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
In the same way, you also rejoice and rejoice with me.
I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon so that I too may be revived when I know of his condition;
Well, I have no one who cares about you with such encouragement and sincerity.
Because everyone seeks their personal interests, not what belongs to Jesus Christ.
You already know the reputation of Timothy, who as a son to a father has served with me in the gospel.
Therefore, I hope to send it as soon as I see how my affairs are going;
But I trust in the Lord that I too will come to you soon.
However, I also believed it necessary to send Epaphroditus, my brother, collaborator and fellow soldier, and his messenger and provider of my needs,
since he longed for all of you and was distressed because they had heard that he was sick.
For indeed he was sick with death, but God had mercy on him; and not only from him but also from me, so that I would not have sadness on sadness.
Therefore, I send it with more urgency, so that they rejoice when they see it and I am free from worry.
So welcome him in the Lord with all joy and hold men like him in high regard;
because because of the work of Christ he was close to death, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service on my behalf.