Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any communion of the Spirit, if some affection and compassion,
make my joy complete, being of the same mind, preserving the same love, united in spirit, dedicated to the same purpose.
Do nothing out of selfishness or vainglory, but with a humble attitude each of you considers the other as more important than himself,
not each seeking his own interests, but rather the interests of others.
Let this attitude be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
which, although it existed in the form of God, did not consider being equal to God as something to hold on to,
but he stripped himself of himself in the form of a servant, making himself like men.
And being in the form of a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, and death on the cross.
Wherefore God also exalted him to the utmost, and conferred upon him the name which is above all names,
so that at the name of Jesus ALL KNEES of those who are in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth,
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
So, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work in your salvation with fear and trembling;
because God is the one who works in you, both wanting and doing, to sub-implicit.
Do all things without murmuring or arguing,
so that you may be blameless and simple, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in the midst of which you shine as luminaries in the world,
firmly holding the word of life, so that I have reason to glory in the day of Christ, since I will not have run in vain nor have I worked in vain.
But although I am poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and share my joy with all of you.
And you also, I beg you, rejoice in the same way, and share your joy with me.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be encouraged to know of your condition.
Well, I have no one else who feels the same way as me and who is sincerely interested in your well-being.
Because everyone seeks their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus.
But you know his proven merits, that he served with me in spreading the gospel as a son serves his father.
So I hope to send this one immediately as soon as I see how things are going with me;
and I trust in the Lord that I too will come soon.
But I thought it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother, collaborator and companion in the militia, who is also your messenger and servant for my needs;
Because he longed for all of you, and was distressed because you had heard that he had become ill.
Well, he was really sick, about to die; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, so that I would not have sadness over sadness.
So I have sent it with greater request, so that when you see it again, you will rejoice and I will be calmer as for you.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold those like him in high regard;
because he was on the verge of death for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me.