For the rest, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. Writing the same things to you is not annoying, and for you it is safer.
Beware of the dogs! Beware of bad workers! Beware of those who mutilate [the] body!
Because we are circumcision: those who serve God in spirit, those who glory in Christ Jesus and those who do not trust the flesh.
Although I have to trust the meat too. If anyone thinks they have something to trust in the meat, I more:
circumcised on the eighth day, of the lineage of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as for the law, Pharisee;
as for zeal, persecutor of the church; as for the justice of the law, blameless.
But the things that were gain for me I have considered loss because of Christ.
And even more: I consider all things as loss, compared to how incomparable it is to know Christ Jesus my Lord. Because of him I have lost everything and I have it for trash in order to win Christ
and be found in it; without claiming a justice of mine, derived from the law, but that which is by faith in Christ; the justice that comes from God by faith.
I long to know him and the power of his resurrection, and participate in his sufferings, to be similar to him in his death;
And somehow, I will find myself in the resurrection of the dead.
I do not mean that I have already achieved it or that I have reached perfection, but rather I continue to see if I achieve that for which I was also achieved by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I do not claim to have already achieved it myself. But one thing I do: forgetting what's left behind and reaching out to what's ahead,
I press on toward the goal toward the prize of the highest calling [b] of God in Christ Jesus.
So, all of us who have reached maturity think like this; And if they think otherwise, that will also be revealed to us by God.
In any case, let us remain faithful to what we have achieved [c].
Brothers, be imitators of me and pay attention to those who conduct themselves in this way, according to the example they have in us.
Because many walk around, of whom I spoke many times, and now I even say crying, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ.
Their end will be perdition, their god is their stomach, their glory is in their shame, and they think only of the earthly.
Because our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also ardently await the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ.
He will transform our body of humiliation so that it has the same shape as his body of glory, according to the operation of his power, to also subject himself to all things.