Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if some consolation of love, if some communion of the Spirit, if some affectionate affection and some mercies,
complete my joy, feeling the same, having the same love, unanimous, feeling the same thing.
Do nothing for contention or for vainglory; rather, with humility, each one esteeming the others as superior to himself;
not looking each for his own, but each also for the others.
Let there be in you this feeling that was also in Christ Jesus,
the one who, being in the form of God, did not have as usurpation being equal to God.
however, he stripped himself, taking the form of a servant, making himself like men;
and being in the condition of man, he humbled himself, and became obedient to death, and death on the cross.
Wherefore God also exalted him to the utmost, and gave him a name which is above all names;
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow to those in heaven, and on earth and under the earth;
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, for the glory of God the Father.
Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but much more now in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling;
because God is the one who produces in you both wanting and doing, by his good will.
Do everything without gossip or strife,
so that you may be blameless and simple, children of God, without blame, in the midst of an evil and perverse generation, among whom you shine as luminaries in the world;
clinging to the word of life so that in the day of Christ I can boast that I have not run in vain, nor have I worked in vain.
And though it is poured out in libation upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
And likewise rejoice also, and rejoice with me.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be in good spirits, knowing of your state.
Because I have no one of the same spirit and I am so sincerely interested in you.
Because everyone is looking for their own, not what belongs to Jesus Christ.
But from him you have already known his merits, that as a son to a father he has served with me in the gospel.
So I hope to send this to you, after I see how my affairs are going;
And I trust the Lord that I too will come to you soon.
But I considered it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother, and collaborator and companion of the militia, and your messenger, and minister of my needs;
because he had a great desire to see all of you, and he was seriously distressed because you had heard that he had become ill.
Well, he was really ill, on the verge of death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, so that I would not have sadness over sadness.
So I send him more quickly, so that when you see him again you will rejoice, and I will be less sad.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy; and esteem those who are like him,
because by the work of Christ he was close to death, exposing his life to supply what was lacking in your service to me.