So, my brothers, loved and loved, my joy and crown, be firm in the Lord, beloved.
I beg Evodia, and I beg Syntyche to agree on the Lord.
Yes, and you too, faithful companion, I ask you to help these sisters who fought together with me in the gospel, also with Clement and the other collaborators of mine whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always! Again I say it: Rejoice!
Her kindness is known to all men. The Lord is near!
Be anxious for nothing; rather, present your requests before God in all prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving.
And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
As for the rest, brothers, everything that is true, everything honorable, everything fair, everything pure, everything kind, everything that is of good name, if there is any virtue, if there is something that deserves praise, think about this.
What you learned, received, heard and saw in me, do this; and the God of peace will be with you.
I rejoiced in the Lord greatly because at last your concern for me has been renewed. They always thought of me, but they lacked the opportunity.
I am not saying it because I have a shortage because I have learned to be content with what I have.
I know how to live in poverty, and I know how to live in abundance. Everywhere and in all circumstances I have learned the secret of dealing with both hunger and hunger, both abundance and need.
I can do everything in Christ [b] who strengthens me!
However, they did well to participate with me in my tribulation.
You also know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church participated with me in giving and receiving but you alone.
Because even to Thessalonica they sent for my needs over and over again.
It is not that I am looking for a donation but that I am looking for fruit that abounds in your account.
However, I have received everything and I have abundance. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus what they sent, as a fragrant scent, an acceptable and pleasing sacrifice to God.
My God, then, will supply all your needs according to your riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Greet all the saints in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
All the saints greet them, and especially those who belong to the house of Caesar [c].
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit [d].