Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God every time I remember you,
always interceding with joy for all of you in every prayer of mine,
because of their participation in the gospel from the first day until now;
being convinced of this: that he who began the good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus.
It is fair for me to feel this of all of you, because I have you in my heart. Both in my prisons and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers of grace with me.
Well, God is a witness to me how I miss you all with the deep love of Jesus Christ.
And this is my prayer: that his love abound even more and more in knowledge and in all discernment
to approve the best, to be sincere and blameless on the day of Christ,
full of the fruit of justice, fruit that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
I want you to know, brothers, that the things that have happened to me have been more for the advancement of the gospel.
In this way, my prisons for the cause of Christ have been known throughout the Praetorium and among all others.
Most of the brothers, taking courage in the Lord through my prisons, dare much more to speak the word [a] without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ out of envy and strife, but others do so willingly.
The latter do it for love, knowing that I have been put up for the defense of the gospel,
while those advertise Christ for contention, not honestly, thinking to add affliction to my prisons.
So? Only that in any case Christ is announced, either by pretext or by truth, and in this I am glad. But I'll be even happier
I know that through your prayer and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will result in my liberation,
According to my longing and hope: that in nothing I will be ashamed but with all confidence, both now and forever, Christ will be exalted in my body, be it for life or death.
Because for me, living is Christ, and dying is gain.
But if living in the flesh serves me for a fruitful work, which one will I choose? I do not know.
I feel pressured on both sides. I have the desire to leave and be with Christ, which is much better;
but staying in the flesh is more necessary because of you.
Well, convinced of this, I know that I will stay and that I will still stay with all of you for your development and joy in faith,
so that in me there is reason to increase your pride in Christ Jesus because of my presence again among you.
Just make sure that your conduct as citizens is worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that, whether I go to see you or I am absent, I hear about you who are firm in one spirit, fighting together and unanimously for the faith of the gospel. ,
and not being intimidated in any way by adversaries. For them this faith is an indication of perdition, but for you it is an indication of salvation; and this comes from God.
Because you have been granted, because of Christ, not only the privilege of believing in him but also the suffering of his cause.
Thus they will have the same conflict that they have seen and that they now hear is still in me.