Remain firm, then, in the liberty with which Christ made us free, and never again be imprisoned in the yoke of slavery.
Behold, I, Paul, tell you that if you are circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
And again I testify again to every man who is circumcised, that he is bound to keep the whole law.
Separated are you from Christ who by law justify yourselves; you have fallen from grace.
Because we, by the Spirit, wait by faith for the hope of justice.
Because in Christ Jesus neither circumcision is worth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith that works through love.
You were running well; Who hindered you not to obey the truth?
This persuasion does not come from the one who calls you.
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
I trust in you, in the Lord, that you will not think in any other way; but whoever disturbs you will bear the sentence, whoever it is.
As for me, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In such a case, the scandal of the cross would have been removed.
I wish those who disturb you would be mutilated.
Because you, brothers, have been called to freedom; only that you do not use freedom as an occasion for the flesh, but serve one another out of love.
Because all the law in this single word is fulfilled: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you bite and devour each other, see that you do not destroy each other either.
I say then: Walk in the Spirit, and do not satisfy the lust of the flesh.
For the desire of the flesh is against the Spirit, and the desire of the Spirit is against the flesh; and these are opposed to each other, so that you don't do what you want.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
And manifest are the works of the flesh, which are: adultery, fornication, filth, lust,
idolatry, witchcraft, enmities, lawsuits, jealousy, anger, strife, dissension, heresy,
envy, homicide, drunkenness, orgies and the like, of which I warn you, as I have already told you, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith,
meekness, temperance; against such things there is no law.
Because those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Let us not seek pride, irritating one another, envying one another.