Oh foolish Galatians! Who has fascinated you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly presented as crucified?
This is the only thing I want to find out from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?
Are you so foolish? Having started with the Spirit, are you going to end now with the flesh?
Have you suffered so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain!
He who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by hearing with faith?
Thus Abraham believed God and it was counted as righteousness.
Therefore, know that those who are of faith are children of Abraham.
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, announced beforehand the good news to Abraham, saying: In you all nations will be blessed.
So those of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer.
For all who are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written: Cursed is everyone who does not abide in all things written in the book of the law, to do them.
And that no one is justified before God by the law is evident, because the just will live by faith.
However, the law is not of faith; on the contrary, He who makes them will live for them.
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us (because it is written: Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree),
so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham would come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak in human terms: a pact, even if it is human, once ratified no one invalidates it or adds conditions.
Now the promises were made to Abraham and his descendants. It does not say: and offspring, as referring to many, but rather one: and your offspring, that is, Christ.
What I am saying is this: The law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God, as to nullify the promise.
Because if the inheritance depends on the law, it no longer depends on a promise; but God granted it to Abraham by means of a promise.
So what was the law given for? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring to whom the promise had been made came, a law that was promulgated by angels by the hand of a mediator.
Now, a mediator is not on one side only, since God is one.
Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? No way! For if a law capable of imparting life had been given, then justice would certainly have depended on the law.
But Scripture locked everything under sin, so that the promise that is by faith in Jesus Christ would be given to all who believe.
And before faith came, we were locked up under the law, confined to the faith that was to be revealed.
So the law has become our teacher to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith.
But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor,
for you are all children of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ.
There is no Jew or Greek; there is neither slave nor free; there is neither man nor woman; because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you belong to Christ, then you are descendants of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.