Paul, an apostle (not of men or of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead),
and all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am amazed that as soon as you have turned away from the one who called you by the grace of Christ, to follow a different gospel.
Not that there is another, but there are some who disturb you, and want to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But if even we, or an angel from heaven, announce a different gospel to you than what we have announced, let him be anathema.
As we have said before, I also repeat it now: if anyone announces a different gospel to the one you have received, let him be anathema.
Because, am I now persuading men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if he still pleased men, he would not be a servant of Christ.
But I let you know, brothers, that the gospel that has been announced by me is not according to man;
for I neither received it nor learned it from any man, but by revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you have already heard of my conduct in Judaism once, which greatly persecuted and ravaged the church of God;
and in Judaism I was far ahead of many of my contemporaries in my nation, being much more jealous of my parents' traditions.
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace,
reveal his Son in me, that I might preach to him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but went to Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
Then three years later, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and I stayed with him for fifteen days.
But I did not see any other of the apostles, but James, the Lord's brother.
And in what I am writing to you, behold, I am not lying before God.
Then I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
and he was not known by sight to the churches of Judea, which were in Christ;
they had only heard it said: He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith that once ravaged us.
And they glorified God in me.