Paul, an apostle — not through men or through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead—
and all the brothers who are with me; to the churches of Galacia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
who gave himself for our sins. In this way he delivered us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am amazed that as soon as they are turning away from the one who called them by the grace of Christ [a], to go after a different gospel.
It is not that there is another gospel, but there are some who disturb them and want to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But even if we ourselves or an angel from heaven [b] announced to you a different gospel from the one we have announced to you, be anathema.
As we have already said, right now I say again: If someone is announcing a gospel contrary to what they received, let him be anathema.
Am I now seeking to convince men, or God? Could it be that I seek to please men? If I still tried to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ.
But I let you know, brothers, that the gospel that was announced by me is not according to man;
for I did not receive it, nor was it taught to me by any man, but by revelation of Jesus Christ.
You heard about my conduct in Judaism before: that I was fiercely persecuting the church of God and was devastating it.
I stood out in Judaism over many of my contemporaries in my nation, being much more jealous of my parents' traditions.
But when God — who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace — saw fit
reveal his Son in me for me to announce to the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with any man
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I left for Arabia and returned again to Damascus.
Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to meet Peter and stayed with him for fifteen days.
I saw no other of the apostles but James [c], the Lord's brother;
And as for what I am writing to you, behold, I am not lying before God.
Then I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
And I was not known by sight to the churches of Judea, those that are in Christ.
They only heard them say: "He who formerly persecuted us now proclaims as good news the faith he previously ravaged."
And they glorified God for my sake.