I say, furthermore, that while the heir is a child he does not differ in any way from the slave, although he is lord of everything;
rather, he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by his father.
In the same way we, when we were children, were slaves subject to the elemental principles of the world.
But when the fullness of time came, God sent his Son, born of a woman and born under the law,
to redeem those under the law so that we would receive the adoption of children.
And because they are children, God sent to our hearts the Spirit of his Son who cries out: "Abba, Father".
So you are no longer a slave but a son; And if you are a son, you are also an heir through God.
However, in another time, when they had not known God, they served those who by nature are not gods.
On the other hand, now that they have known God or, rather, since they have been known to God, how is it that they turn back to the weak and poor elemental principles? Do you want to serve them again?
You keep the days, the months, the seasons and the years!
I am afraid for you, that I have worked in your favor in vain.
I beg you, brothers, to become like me, since I became like you. They have done me no wrong.
They know it was because of a physical weakness that I announced the gospel to them the first time;
and what in my body was a test for you, you did not reject or belittle. On the contrary, they received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
Where, then, is his bliss? Because I bear witness to you that, if it had been possible, they would have taken out their eyes to give them to me.
It turns out that now I have become their enemy by telling them the truth?
They are zealous for you, but not for good; on the contrary, they want to isolate you so that you are zealous for them.
It is good to always be jealous of good, and not only when I am present with you.
My little children, for whom I suffer birth pains again until Christ is formed in you,
I would like to be with you now and change the tone of my voice because I am perplexed about you.
Tell me those who want to be under the law: Don't they listen to the law?
Because it is written that Abraham had two children: one of the slave and the other of the free.
But while that of the slave was born according to the flesh, that of the free was born through promise.
In these things there is an allegory because these women are two covenants: Hagar is the covenant of Mount Sinai that fathered children for slavery.
Because Hagar represents Sinai, mountain that is in Arabia and corresponds to the current Jerusalem, which is a slave together with her children.
But the Jerusalem above, which is our mother, is free;
for it is written: Rejoice, sterile, that you do not give birth; break into a shout of joy and raise your voice, you who are not in labor; for more are the children of the desolate than those of her who has a husband.
Now, brothers, you are children of promise just like Isaac.
But just as the one who was begotten after the flesh persecuted the one born according to the Spirit, so is it now.
But what does Scripture say? He casts out the slave girl and her son; because the son of the slave will never be heir with the son [b] of the free.
So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free.