Then, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, also taking Titus.
I went up because of a revelation and presented the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but I did it privately to those with high reputations, to make sure that I did not run or had run in vain.
But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, even though he was Greek.
And this was because of the secretly introduced false brothers, who had infiltrated to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus, in order to subject us to slavery,
to which we do not yield for a moment, so as not to submit ourselves, so that the truth of the gospel may remain with you.
And of those who had a reputation for being something (what they were, nothing matters to me; God is no respecter of people), well, those who had a reputation taught me nothing.
On the contrary, when I saw that the gospel had been entrusted to those of the uncircumcision, just as Peter had been entrusted to those of the circumcision
(because he who worked effectively with Peter in his apostolate to those of the circumcision, also worked effectively for me in my apostolate to the Gentiles),
and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James, Peter and John, who were considered as columns, gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we would go to the Gentiles and they to those of the circumcision.
They only asked us to remember the poor, the same as I was also willing to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him face to face, because he was to be condemned.
Because before some came from James, he ate with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and withdraw, because he feared those of the circumcision.
And the rest of the Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, in such a way that even Barnabas was dragged by their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they were not upright about the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of everyone: If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, why do you force the Gentiles to live like Jews ?
We are Jews by birth and not sinners among the Gentiles;
However, knowing that man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, we also have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we are justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law; since by the works of the law no one will be justified.
But if we have also been found sinners by seeking to be justified in Christ, is Christ, then, a minister of sin? No way!
Because if I rebuild what I once destroyed, I am a transgressor myself.
For through the law I died to the law, in order to live for God.
With Christ I have been crucified, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me; and the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
I do not nullify the grace of God, because if justice comes through the law, then Christ died in vain.