O foolish Galatians, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was presented as crucified! Who bewitched them?
This is the only thing I want to know about you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by having heard in faith?
How foolish are they? Having started in the Spirit, will they now end in the flesh?
They suffered so many things in vain, if it really was in vain?
So whoever supplies the Spirit and works wonders among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by hearing with faith?
In the same way, Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness [a].
Therefore, know that those who are based on faith are children of Abraham.
And the Scripture, having foreseen that by faith God was to justify the Gentiles, foretold the gospel to Abraham, saying: In you all nations will be blessed [b].
Of course, those based on faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.
For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written: Cursed is everyone who does not abide in all the things written in the book of the Law to fulfill them [c].
Of course, it is evident that by law no one is justified before God, because the righteous will live by faith [d].
Now the law is not based on faith; on the contrary, he who does these things will live by them [e].
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us (because it is written: Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree [f]),
so that the blessing of Abraham would come through Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, so that we receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak in human terms: Although a pact is of men, once ratified, no one cancels or adds to it.
Now the promises to Abraham were also made to his descendants. It does not say: "and the descendants", as referring to many, but only one: and your descendants [g], who is Christ.
This, then, I say: The covenant previously confirmed by God is not abrogated by the law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, to invalidate the promise.
For if the inheritance were by law it would no longer be by promise; but to Abraham God has freely given the inheritance by means of a promise.
So what is the law for? It was given because of transgressions, until the seed came to whom the promise had been made. And this law was promulgated by angels, by the hand of a mediator.
And the mediator is not one, but God is one.
Consequently, is the law contrary to God's promises? No way! Because if a law capable of vivifying had been given, then justice would be by law.
However, Scripture locked everything under sin so that the promise would be given by faith in Jesus Christ to those who believe.
But before faith came we were kept under the law, reserved for the faith that was to be revealed.
So the law has been our guardian to lead us to Christ, that we may be justified by faith.
But, since faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor.
So everyone is a child of God through faith in Christ Jesus
for all who were baptized into Christ have clothed themselves with Christ.
There is no longer Jew or Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female; because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And since they belong to Christ, they are certainly descendants of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.