And I also say: Meanwhile, the heir is a child, in no way does he differ from the slave, although he is lord of everything,
but is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
So also we, when we were children, were in slavery under the elemental principles of the world.
But when the time came, God sent his Son, born of a woman and born under the law,
that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
And because you are children, God sent into your hearts the Spirit of his Son, who cries out: Abba, Father!
So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, also heir of God through Christ.
Certainly, in another time, when you did not know God, you served those who by nature are not gods.
But now, having known God, or rather, being known by God, how is it that you turn back to the weak and poor elemental principles, to which you want to enslave yourself again?
You keep days, and months, and times, and years.
I fear for you, that I have worked in vain for you.
I beseech you, brethren, be like me, for I also have become like you; You have done me no wrong.
For you know that because of illness of the body I announced the gospel to you at the beginning;
and you did not reject me or belittle me for the test that I had in my body; rather, you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
Where, then, is your bliss? Because I bear witness to you that, if possible, you would have taken out your own eyes to give them to me.
Have I therefore become your enemy by telling you the truth?
They are jealous for you, but not for good, but they want to exclude you, so that you have zeal for them.
It is good to be zealous for good always, and not only when I am present with you.
My little children, for whom I suffer birth pains again, until Christ is formed in you,
I would like to be with you now and change the tone of my voice, because I am puzzled about you.
Tell me, you who want to be under the law, have you not heard the law?
Because it is written that Abraham had two children: one of the servant, the other of the free one.
And the servant was born according to the flesh; but the free one was born through promise.
Which is an allegory, for these women are the two covenants: the one certainly from Mount Sinai, which bears children for servitude; this is Hagar.
Because Hagar is Mount Sinai, in Arabia, and corresponds to present-day Jerusalem, which is in bondage along with its children.
But the Jerusalem above, which is the mother of us all, is free.
Because it is written: Rejoice, sterile, you who do not give birth; break out in joy and cry out, you who do not have labor pains !, because more are the children of the abandoned one, than the one with a husband.
So, brothers, we, like Isaac, are children of promise.
But just as then the one born according to the flesh persecuted the one born according to the Spirit, so also now.
But what does Scripture say? Cast out the maid and her son, for the son of the maid shall not be heir with the son of the free woman.
So, brothers, we are not children of the servant, but of the free.