It was for freedom that Christ made us free; therefore stand firm, and never again submit to the yoke of slavery.
Look, I, Paul, I tell you that if you allow yourself to be circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
And again I testify to every man who is circumcised that he is bound to follow the whole law.
You have separated yourselves from Christ, you who seek to be justified by the law; you have fallen from grace.
For we, through the Spirit, wait by faith for the hope of justice.
Because in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything but faith that works out of love.
You were running well, who prevented you from obeying the truth?
This persuasion did not come from the one who calls you.
A little yeast ferments the entire dough.
I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will not choose another point of view; but whoever disturbs you will bear his punishment, whoever he is.
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In such a case, the scandal of the cross has been abolished.
Hopefully those who disturb you will also be mutilated!
Because you, brothers, were called to freedom; just don't use freedom as a pretext for the flesh, but serve each other out of love.
Because all the law in one word is fulfilled in the precept: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you bite and devour each other, be careful, lest you consume each other.
So I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the desire of the flesh.
Because the desire of the flesh is against the Spirit, and the desire of the Spirit is against the flesh, because they are opposed to each other, so that you cannot do what you want.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Now, the works of the flesh are evident, which are: immorality, impurity, sensuality,
idolatry, sorcery, enmities, lawsuits, jealousy, anger, rivalries, dissensions, sectarianisms,
envy, drunkenness, orgies and the like, against which I warn you, as I have already told you before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
For those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Let's not make ourselves vainglorious, provoking each other, envying each other.