O foolish Galatians! Who fascinated you, in order not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was already clearly presented as crucified?
This I only want to know about you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?
Are you so foolish? Having started with the Spirit, are you now perfected by the flesh?
Have you suffered so many things in vain ?, if it really was in vain.
He who gives you the Spirit and works miracles among you, does it by works of the law, or by hearing with faith?
How Abraham believed God and was counted for righteousness.
Know therefore that those who are of faith are children of Abraham.
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God was to justify the Gentiles by faith, announced the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying: In you all nations will be blessed.
So those who are of faith are blessed with the believer Abraham.
For all who are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide in all the things that are written in the book of the law, to do them.
And that by law no one is justified before God, it is evident, because: The righteous will live by faith.
But the law does not come from faith, but says: The man who does these things will live by them.
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us (because it is written: Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree),
so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham would be upon the Gentiles, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit.
Brothers, I speak in human terms: A pact, even if it is a man, once confirmed, no one invalidates or adds to it.
Now the promises were made to Abraham, and to his seed. It does not say: And to the descendants, as if speaking of many, but as of one: And to your descendants, which is Christ.
This, then, I say: The covenant previously confirmed by God towards Christ, the law, which was made four hundred and thirty years later, does not abrogate it, as to invalidate the promise.
For if the inheritance is by law, it is no longer by promise; but by promise God granted it to Abraham.
So what good is the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring to whom the promise was made, that one was ordained by angels by the hand of a mediator.
And the mediator is not one, but God is one.
So is the law against God's promises? No way! For if the given law could give life, justice would truly be by law.
But Scripture locked everything under sin, so that the promise that is by faith in Jesus Christ would be given to believers.
But before faith came, we were kept under the law, locked up for that faith that was to be revealed.
So the law was our teacher to lead us to Christ, so that we would be justified by faith.
But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor,
because you are all children of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For all of you who have been baptized into Christ are clothed with Christ.
There is no longer Jew, nor Greek; there is neither slave nor free; there is neither male nor female; because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you are Christ's, you are certainly descendants of Abraham, and heirs according to the promise.