So I say: While the heir is a minor, he is not different from the servant, even if he is the owner of everything,
but is under guardians and guardians until the age indicated by the father.
So also we, while we were children, were subject to servitude under the elemental things of the world.
But when the fullness of time came, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law,
that he might redeem those under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
And because you are children, God has sent the Spirit of his Son to our hearts, crying out: Abba! Father!
Therefore you are no longer a servant, but a son; and if a son, also an heir through God.
But at that time, when you did not know God, you were servants of those who by nature are not gods.
But now that you know God, or rather, that you are known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak, useless and elemental things, to which you wish to be enslaved again?
You observe the days, the months, the seasons and the years.
I fear for you, that perhaps in vain I have worked for you.
I beg you, brethren, become like me, for I too have become like you. You have done me no wrong;
But you know that it was because of a physical illness that I announced the gospel to you the first time;
and what for you was a test in my physical condition, that you did not despise or reject, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus himself.
Where, then, is that sense of blessing that you had? Well, I am a witness in your favor that if possible, you would have taken out your eyes and given them to me.
Have I therefore become your enemy by telling you the truth?
They are jealous of you, not with good intention, but they want to exclude you so that you show zeal for them.
It is good to always show zeal with good intention, and not only when I am present with you.
My children, for whom I suffer birth pains again until Christ is formed in you,
I would like to be present with you now and change my tone, because I am puzzled about you.
Tell me, you who wish to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
Because it is written that Abraham had two children, one of the servant and another of the free one.
But the son of the handmaid was born according to the flesh, and the son of the free one through promise.
This contains an allegory, for these women are two covenants; one comes from Mount Sinai who begets children to be slaves; this is Hagar.
Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and it corresponds to Jerusalem today, because she is in slavery with her children.
But the Jerusalem above is free; this is our mother.
For it is written: Rejoice, O barren one, you who do not conceive; break forth and cry out, you who do not have labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate one, than the one with a husband.
And you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
But just as then the one born according to the flesh persecuted the one born according to the Spirit, so it is now also.
But what does Scripture say? Cast out the maid and her son, for the son of the maid will not be an heir with the son of the free woman.
So, brothers, we are not children of the handmaid, but of the free one.