Then, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem, along with Barnabas, and took Titus with me as well.
But I went up according to a revelation and exposed to them the gospel that I am proclaiming among the Gentiles. I did this privately to those with high reputations, to make sure I didn't run or run in vain.
However, not even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek was forced to be circumcised,
in spite of the false brothers who secretly infiltrated to spy on our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus in order to reduce us to slavery.
Not for a moment did we yield in submission to them so that the truth of the gospel would remain in your favor.
However, those who had a reputation for being important — who they once were, don't matter to me; God makes no distinction of persons — to me, in truth, those of high reputation added nothing new.
Rather, on the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel for uncircumcision as well as Peter for circumcision.
—Because he who acted in Peter to make him an apostle of circumcision also acted in me to make me an apostle on behalf of the Gentiles—
and when they perceived the grace that had been given to me, James, Peter and John, who had the reputation of being columns, gave Barnabas and me the right hand as a sign of fellowship, so that we would go to the Gentiles and they to those of circumcision.
They only asked us to remember the poor, which I tried to do with care.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him face to face because he was reprehensible.
For before certain people came from James, he ate with the Gentiles; but when they arrived, he would withdraw and turn away, fearing those of the circumcision.
And the other Jews participated with him in his simulation, in such a way that even Barnabas was dragged by their hypocrisy.
On the other hand, when I saw that they were not upright in the face of the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of everyone: "If you, who are Jewish, live like Gentiles and not like Jews, why do you force Gentiles to become Jews? ? "
We are Jews by birth and not sinners among the Gentiles;
But knowing that no man is justified by the works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, we have also believed in Christ Jesus, so that we are justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Because by the works of the law no one will be justified.
But if we have also been found sinners, seeking to be justified in Christ, will Christ be the servant of sin? No way!
Well, when I build again the same things that I demolished, I show that I am a transgressor.
Because through the law I have died to the law, in order to live for God.
With Christ I have been crucified together; and I no longer live but Christ lives in me. What I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me.
I do not reject the grace of God; because if justice were through the law, then Christ died for nothing else.