Then, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem together with Barnabas, also taking Titus with me.
And I went up by revelation, and I exposed the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, in private, to those who seemed to be important people, not to run or to have run in vain.
But even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was not forced to be circumcised.
And that despite the false brothers, who secretly entered to spy on our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, to reduce us to slavery;
to whom we did not for a moment agree to submit, so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
But of those who seemed to be important (what they have been in the past nothing matters to me; God does not mean people), certainly those who seemed important added nothing new.
On the contrary, as they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel of the uncircumcision, like Peter that of the circumcision.
(because he who acted in Peter for the apostolate of circumcision also acted in me towards the Gentiles),
and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were considered as columns, gave me and Barnabas the right hand as a sign of fellowship so that we could go to the Gentiles, and they to those of the circumcision.
They only asked us to remember the poor, which I was also solicitous to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I resisted him face to face, because he was to be condemned.
For before some came from James, he ate with the Gentiles; but after they came, he would withdraw and turn away, for he was afraid of those who were of the circumcision.
And in their simulation the other Jews also consented, in such a way that even Barnabas was also dragged away by their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they did not walk righteously according to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of everyone: If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like a Jew, why do you force the Gentiles to Judaize?
We, Jews by birth, and not sinners among the Gentiles,
Knowing that man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ, we have also believed in Jesus Christ, to be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law; for by the works of the law no flesh will be justified.
Now, if by seeking to be justified in Christ, we also turn out to be sinners, is that why Christ is a minister of sin? No way!
Because if I destroy the things that I rebuild, I become a transgressor.
Because I by law have died to the law, in order to live for God.
I am crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me; and what I now live in the flesh, I live in the faith of the Son of God, the one who loved me and gave himself for me.
I do not reject the grace of God, because if by law comes justice, then Christ died in vain.