Paul, an apostle (not through men or through any man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead),
and all the brothers who are with me: To the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I wonder that as soon as you have abandoned the one who called you by the grace of Christ, to follow a different gospel;
that it is not really another gospel, only that there are some who disturb you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But if even we, or an angel from heaven, announced to you another gospel contrary to the one we have announced to you, let him be anathema.
As we have said before, I also repeat now: If anyone announces to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be anathema.
Because do I now seek the favor of men or that of God? Or do I strive to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ.
Well, I want you to know, brothers, that the gospel that was announced by me is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, nor was it taught to me, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
Because you have heard about my old way of living in Judaism, how excessively I persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it,
and how I was superior in Judaism to many of my contemporary compatriots, showing much more zeal for the traditions of my ancestors.
But when God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, saw fit
reveal his Son in me so that I would announce him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but went to Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
So three years later, I went up to Jerusalem to meet Peter, and I was with him fifteen days.
But I did not see any other of the apostles, but James, the Lord's brother.
(In what I am writing to you, I assure you before God that I am not lying.)
Then I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
But he was not yet known in person in the Judean churches that were in Christ;
but they only heard it said: He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith he once wanted to destroy.
And they glorified God for my sake.