Stand firm, then, in the freedom with which Christ made us free, and do not again place yourselves under the yoke of slavery.
Behold, Paul, I tell you that if you allow yourselves to be circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
And again I declare to every man who agrees to be circumcised, that he is bound to abide by all the law.
You, who claim to be justified in the law, have been cut off from Christ and fallen from grace!
Because we, by the Spirit, wait by faith for the hope of justice.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is worth anything but faith that works through love.
They ran well. Who hindered them not to obey the truth?
Such persuasion does not come from the one who calls you.
A little yeast leavens the whole dough.
I trust the Lord regarding you that you will not think in any other way; and he who worries them will bear his punishment, whoever he is.
But regarding me, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In such a case, the stumbling block of the cross would have been removed.
If only those who disturb them would be mutilated!
You were called to freedom, brothers; only that they do not use freedom as a pretext for carnality. Rather, serve one another through love,
because all the law has been summed up in a single precept: You shall love your neighbor as yourself [a].
But if they bite and eat each other, see that they are not consumed by each other.
So I say: Walk in the Spirit, and thus you will never satisfy the evil desires of the flesh.
Because the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit desires what is contrary to the flesh. They both oppose each other so they don't do what they want.
But if they are led by the Spirit, they are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are evident. These are: sexual immorality [b], impurity, debauchery,
idolatry, sorcery, enmities, lawsuits, jealousy, anger, strife, dissension, partisanship,
envy [c], drunkenness, orgies, and the like, of which I warn you, as I did before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith,
meekness and self-control. Against such things there is no law
because those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Now that we live in the Spirit, let us walk in the Spirit.
Let's not be vain, irritating each other and envying each other.