Now, faith is the certainty of what is expected, the conviction of what is not seen.
Because the ancients received approval for it.
By faith we understand that the universe was prepared by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made of visible things.
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained the testimony that he was just, God giving testimony of his offerings; and by faith, being dead, he still speaks.
By faith Enoch was taken to heaven so that he would not see death; and it was not found because God transferred it; because before being transferred he received testimony of having pleased God.
And without faith it is impossible to please God; because it is necessary that the one who approaches God believes that He exists, and that he is the remunerator of those who seek him.
By faith Noah, being warned by God about things not yet seen, fearfully prepared an ark for the salvation of his house, by which he condemned the world, and became heir of the justice that is according to faith .
By faith Abraham, when called, obeyed, leaving for a place that he was to receive as an inheritance; and left without knowing where he was going.
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a strange land, living in tents like Isaac and Jacob, joint heirs of the same promise,
because he was waiting for the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
Also by faith Sarah herself received strength to conceive, even after the proper age, because she considered faithful the one who had promised.
For this reason, an offspring like the stars of the sky in number, and innumerable like the sand that is on the seashore, was also born from one (and this almost dead in this regard).
All of these died in faith, without having received the promises, but having seen and accepted them with pleasure from afar, confessing that they were foreigners and pilgrims on earth.
Because those who say such things, clearly imply that they are looking for a homeland of their own.
And if they had really been thinking about that homeland they came from, they would have had the opportunity to return.
But in reality, they long for a better homeland, that is, heavenly. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.
By faith Abraham, when tested, offered Isaac; and he who had received the promises offered his only son;
It was he who was told: In Isaac you will be called offspring.
He considered that God was powerful to raise even from the dead, from where also, figuratively, he received him again.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even regarding future things.
By faith Jacob, when he died, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the end of his staff.
By faith Joseph, when he died, mentioned the exodus of the children of Israel, and gave instructions about their bones.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden by his parents for three months, because they saw that he was a beautiful child and they did not fear the edict of the king.
By faith Moses, when he was old enough, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God, than to enjoy the temporal pleasures of sin,
considering the reproach of Christ as greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; because he had his sights set on the reward.
By faith he left Egypt without fear of the king's wrath, because he stood firm as seeing the Invisible.
By faith he celebrated Easter and the sprinkling of blood, so that the exterminator of the firstborn would not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, and when the Egyptians tried to do so, they drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, after being surrounded for seven days.
By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish with the disobedient, for having received the spies in peace.
And what else shall I say? For I would not have time to count Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel and the prophets;
who by faith conquered kingdoms, did justice, obtained promises, closed mouths of lions,
they extinguished the violence of the fire, escaped from the edge of the sword; Being weak, they were made strong, they became powerful in war, they put foreign armies to flight.
Women received their dead through resurrection; and others were tortured, not accepting their release, in order to obtain a better resurrection.
Others experienced vituperations and lashes, and even chains and prisons.
They were stoned, sawn, tempted, killed by the sword; they walked here and there covered in sheep and goat skins; destitute, afflicted, mistreated
(of which the world was not worthy), wandering through deserts and mountains, through caves and caverns of the earth.
And all these, having obtained approval for their faith, did not receive the promise,
because God had provided something better for us, so that they would not be made perfect without us.