Brotherly love remain.
Do not forget to show hospitality, because by it some, without knowing it, hosted angels.
Remember the prisoners, as if you were prisoners with them, and the mistreated, since you are also in the body.
Let marriage be honorable in all, and the marriage bed undefiled, for the immoral and adulterers will be judged by God.
Let your character be without greed, happy with what you have, because He himself has said: I will never leave you nor forsake you,
so we confidently say: The Lord is the one who helps me; I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Remember your guides who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Do not let yourselves be carried away by diverse and strange doctrines, because it is a good thing for the heart to be strengthened with grace, not with food, from which those who took care of them received no benefit.
We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.
Because the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought to the sanctuary by the high priest as a sin offering, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore also Jesus, to sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered outside the door.
So let us go out to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
Because we do not have a permanent city here, but we look for the one to come.
Therefore, let us continually offer through him a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And do not forget to do good and to help one another, because God is pleased with such sacrifices.
Obey your shepherds and submit to them, because they watch over your souls, as those who are to give an account. Allow them to do it with joy and not complaining, because that would not be beneficial for you.
Pray for us, since we trust that we have a good conscience, wishing to conduct ourselves honestly in everything.
Furthermore, I urge you to do this, so that I may be restored to you very soon.
And the God of peace, who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead, the great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
make you fit in every good work to do his will, He working in us what is pleasing before Him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
I beg you, brothers, to bear the word of exhortation, for I have written briefly to you.
Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
Greet all your pastors and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.