Now even the first covenant had ordinances of worship and the earthly sanctuary.
Because there was a tabernacle prepared in the previous part, in which were the chandelier, the table and the consecrated loaves; This is called the Holy Place.
And behind the second veil was a tabernacle called the Holy of Holies,
which had the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered all in gold, in which there was a golden urn containing the manna and the rod of Aaron that sprouted and the tables of the covenant;
and on it were the cherubs of glory that gave shade to the mercy seat; but these things cannot be discussed in detail now.
Thus prepared these things, the priests continually enter the first tabernacle to officiate in worship;
but in the second, the high priest only enters once a year, not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of the people committed in ignorance.
The Holy Spirit wanting to imply this: that the way to the Holy of Holies had not yet been revealed as long as the first tabernacle remained standing;
which is a symbol for the present time, according to which offerings and sacrifices are presented that cannot make perfect in his conscience the one who practices that cult,
since they have to do only with food and drinks, and various ablutions and ordinances for the body, imposed until the time of reforming things.
But when Christ appeared as High Priest of future goods, through a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not with this creation,
and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered the Holy of Holies once for all, having obtained eternal redemption.
For if the blood of the goats and the bulls, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled on those who have been defiled, they sanctify for the purification of the meat,
How much more the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, will purify your conscience of dead works to serve the living God?
And so He is the mediator of a new covenant, so that having taken place a death for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Because where there is a will, it is necessary that the testator's death occurs.
Well, a will is valid only in the event of death, since it is not effective while the testator lives.
Therefore, even the first covenant was not inaugurated without blood.
For when Moses finished promulgating all the commandments to all the people, according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book itself and all the people,
saying: This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded you.
And in the same way he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the utensils of the ministry.
And according to the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without bloodshed there is no forgiveness.
Therefore, it was necessary that the representations of things in the heavens be purified in this way, but the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifices than these.
Because Christ did not enter a holy place made by hands, a representation of the true, but in heaven itself, to present himself now in the presence of God for us,
and not to offer himself many times, as the high priest enters the Holy of Holies every year with the blood of others.
Otherwise it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times since the foundation of the world; but now, once in the consummation of the centuries, it has manifested itself to destroy sin by the sacrifice of itself.
And just as it is decreed that men die only once, and after this, judgment,
so also Christ, having once been offered to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, unrelated to sin, for the salvation of those who eagerly await him.