Therefore, we too, having around us our great cloud of witnesses, let us strip ourselves of all weight and of the sin that so easily entangles us, and let us persevere the race that we have before us
set our eyes on Jesus, the author and finisher of the faith, who for the joy that was before him suffered the cross, despising the shame, and has sat at the right hand of the throne of God.
Consider, then, the one who endured so much hostility from sinners against himself, so that your spirits will not fade or you will faint.
For they have not yet resisted even blood fighting sin.
And have they already forgotten the exhortation addressed to them as children? Do not disregard the Lord's discipline or lose heart when you are rebuked by him.
Because the Lord disciplines the one who loves and punishes everyone who receives him as a son.
Remain under discipline; God is treating you like children. For what son is he whom his father does not discipline?
But if they are without the discipline of which all have been participants, then they are illegitimate, and not children.
Also, we had our carnal parents who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not obey the Father of the spirits all the more, and live?
They disciplined us for a few days as they saw fit, while he disciplines us for good so that we may share in his holiness.
At the moment, no discipline seems to be cause for joy but for sadness; but afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of justice to those who have been exercised through it.
Therefore, strengthen weakened hands and paralyzed knees;
and straighten crooked paths for his feet, so that the lame man may not be diverted but, rather, healed.
Seek peace with all, and holiness without which no one will see the Lord.
Take good care that no one fails to achieve the grace of God; that no root of bitterness sprouts and causes nuisance, and that by it many are contaminated;
Let none be immoral or profane like Esau who, for a single meal, sold his own birthright.
Because they already know that he was reproved, even though he later wanted to inherit the blessing, because he found no more occasion for repentance, although he sought it with tears.
You have not approached the mountain that could be touched, the burning fire, the darkness, the deep darkness, the storm,
at the sound of the trumpet and at the roar of the words that those who heard him prayed that they should not be spoken to
because they could not bear what was commanded: If an animal touches the mountain, it will be stoned [b].
And so terrible was that spectacle that Moses said: "I am terrified and trembling" [c].
Rather, they have approached Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, the gathering of myriads of angels,
to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, to God the judge of all, to the spirits of the just and made perfect,
Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's.
See that they do not reject the speaker. For if those who rejected the one who warned on earth did not escape, much less will we escape if we turn away from the one who warns from heaven.
His voice shook the earth back then, and now he has promised saying: Yet again I will shake not only the earth but also the sky [d].
The expression "yet again" clearly indicates that what can be shaken, like created things, will be removed so that what cannot be shaken will remain.
So having received a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us retain grace and through it serve God by pleasing him with fear and reverence.
Because our God is a consuming fire [e].