Let us fear, then, while the promise of entering his rest remains, lest any of you seem to be left behind.
Because also, like them, the good news has been announced to us; But it was of no use to them to hear the word, because they did not identify by faith with those who obeyed it.
But those of us who have believed do enter into rest, as he has said: As I swore in my wrath: "They will never enter into my rest!" [A], even though their works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For in a certain place he has said thus of the seventh day: And God rested on the seventh day from all his works [b].
And again he says here: "They will never enter my rest!" [C].
Since some need to enter into rest, since those to whom it was first announced did not enter because of disobedience,
God has again determined a certain day, saying through David: "Today", after so long, as it has already been said: If you listen to his voice today, do not harden your heart [d].
For if Joshua had given them rest, they would not speak after another day.
Therefore, there is still a sabbatical rest for the people of God.
He who has entered his rest has also rested from his works, as God from his.
Let us, therefore, make every effort to enter that rest, lest someone fall into the same example of disobedience.
Because the Word of God is alive and effective, and more penetrating than any two-edged sword. It penetrates until it breaks the soul and the spirit, the joints and the marrows, and discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
There is no created thing that is not manifest in its presence. Rather, they are all naked and exposed before the eyes of the one to whom we must give an account.
Therefore, having a great high priest who has pierced the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us retain our confession.
Because we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, because he was tempted in everything like us but without sin.
Let us therefore approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we may obtain mercy and find grace for timely help.