Therefore, it is necessary that we more diligently attend to the things we have heard, lest we slip.
For if the word spoken by the angels was firm, and every transgression and disobedience received just retribution,
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation? This salvation, which was originally declared by the Lord, was confirmed to us through those who heard,
God bearing witness together with them with signs, wonders, various powerful deeds and gifts distributed by the Holy Spirit according to his will.
Because it was not the angels to whom God subjected the world to come of which we speak.
Well, someone testified in one place saying: What is man, so that you remember him, or the son of man, so that you take care of him?
For a little while you have made him less than the angels; you crowned him with glory and honor [a];
you have subdued all things under his feet [b]. By submitting all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all the things subjected to it.
However, we see Jesus, who for a short time was made less than the angels, crowned with glory and honor for the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he would taste death for all.
Because it was convenient for God - because of whom and through whom all things exist - to perfect the Author of their salvation, through suffering, to lead many children to glory.
For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all come from one. For this reason, he is not ashamed to call them brothers.
saying: I will announce your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you [c].
And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold, I and the children that God gave me [d].
Therefore, since the sons have participated in flesh and blood, in the same way he also participated in the same to destroy through death the one who had dominion over death (this is the devil),
and to free those who, for fear of death, were all their lives condemned to slavery.
For he certainly did not take angels to himself, but Abraham's seed.
Therefore, it was necessary that in everything he be made like his brothers in order to be a merciful and faithful high priest in service before God, to atone for the sins of the people.
Because in that he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.