For since the law only has the shadow of future goods and not the very form of things, it can never, by the same sacrifices that they offer continuously year after year, make perfect those who come near.
Otherwise, would they not have ceased to offer themselves, since the worshipers, once purified, would no longer be aware of sin?
But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year after year.
Because it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Therefore, when He enters the world, He says: Sacrifice and offering you have not wanted, but a body you have prepared for me;
in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you have not been pleased.
Then I said: "Behold, I have come (in the scroll of the book it is written about me) to do, O God, your will."
Having said above: Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings, and sacrifices for sin you have not wanted, nor have you been pleased with them (which are offered according to the law),
Then he said: Behold, I have come to do your will. He removes the first to establish the second.
By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ offered once for all.
And certainly every priest is standing, day after day, ministering and offering many times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins;
but He, having offered a single sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God,
waiting thereafter until their enemies are placed on their footstool.
For by an offering He has forever made perfect those who are sanctified.
And also the Holy Spirit bears witness to us; because after having said:
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days —the Lord says: I will put my laws in his heart, and in his mind I will write them, he adds:
And I will never remember his sins and iniquities again.
Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no longer an offering for sin.
So, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the Holy of Holies through the blood of Jesus,
by a new and living way that He inaugurated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Let us approach with a sincere heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts purified from bad conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the profession of our hope without hesitation, because faithful is he who promised;
and let's consider how to stimulate each other to love and good works,
not ceasing to congregate, as some have a habit, but exhorting each other, and much more to see that the day is coming.
Because if we continue to deliberately sin after having received the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer any sacrifice for sins,
but a horrendous expectation of judgment, and the fury of a fire that must consume the adversaries.
Anyone who violates the law of Moses dies without mercy because of the testimony of two or three witnesses.
How much more punishment do you think he will deserve who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has considered the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified as unclean, and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
Well we know the one who said: Mia is revenge, I will pay. And again: The Lord will judge his people.
It is a horrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God!
But remember the past days, when after being enlightened, you endured a great struggle of suffering;
on the one hand, being made a public spectacle in shame and affliction, and on the other, being companions of those who were treated like this.
Because you had compassion for the prisoners and you accepted with joy the dispossession of your property, knowing that you have for yourself a better and more lasting possession.
Therefore, do not reject your trust, which has a great reward.
Because you need patience, so that when you have done the will of God, you will obtain the promise.
For in a very short time, he who is to come will come and will not delay.
But my righteous will live by faith; and if he recoils, my soul will not be pleased with him.
But we are not of those who retreat to perdition, but of those who have faith for the preservation of the soul.