Therefore, we must pay much greater attention to what we have heard, lest we deviate.
Because if the word spoken by angels turned out to be immutable, and every transgression and disobedience received a just retribution,
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation? Which, after it was first announced through the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard,
God testifying together with them, both by signs and wonders, and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will.
Because the world to come, about which we are speaking, did not subject angels.
But one has testified in a certain place saying: What is the man so that you remember him, or the son of the man so that you are interested in him?
You have made him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned him with glory and honor, and you have put him over the works of your hands;
You have held everything under his feet. Because by holding everything to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all the things subject to it.
But we see the one who was made a little less than the angels, that is, Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he would taste death for all.
For it was fitting that he for whom all things are and for whom all things are, bringing many sons to glory, should make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one Father; therefore He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying: I will announce your name to my brothers, in the middle of the congregation I will sing hymns to you.
And again: I will trust in Him. And again: Behold, I and the children that God has given me.
So, since the children participate in flesh and blood, He also participated in the same, to nullify through death the power of the one who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
and to free those who, for fear of death, were subject to slavery throughout their lives.
Because it certainly does not help the angels, but it helps the descendants of Abraham.
Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in everything, so that he would become a merciful and faithful high priest in the things that concern God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
For inasmuch as He Himself was tempted in suffering, He is able to succor those who are tempted.