Therefore, leaving the elementary teachings about Christ, let us advance towards maturity, not laying again the foundation of repentance for dead works and faith towards God,
of the teaching on washing, of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do, if God allows it.
Because in the case of those who were once enlightened, who tasted the heavenly gift and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
who liked the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
but after they fell, it is impossible to renew them again for repentance, since they again crucify for themselves the Son of God and expose him to public ignominy.
Because the land that drinks the rain that often falls on it and produces useful vegetation for those for whom it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God;
but if it produces thorns and thistles it is worth nothing, it is close to being cursed, and ends up being burned.
But as for you, beloved, even if we speak in this way, we are persuaded of the things that are better and that belong to salvation.
Because God is not unjust enough to forget your work and the love you have shown towards his name, having served, and still serving, the saints.
But we want each of you to show the same request to the end, to achieve the full assurance of hope,
so that you are not lazy, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
For when God made the promise to Abraham, being unable to swear by a greater one, he swore by himself,
saying: I will certainly bless you and I will certainly multiply you.
And so, having waited patiently, he obtained the promise.
Because men swear by one greater than themselves, and for them an oath given as confirmation is the end of all discussion.
Wherefore God, desiring to show more fully to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his purpose, he swore an oath,
so that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have sought refuge are greatly encouraged to grasp the hope set before us,
which we have as an anchor of the soul, a sure and firm hope, that penetrates even behind the veil,
where Jesus entered for us as a forerunner, made, according to the order of Melchizedek, High Priest forever.