Therefore, it is necessary that we more diligently attend to the things we have heard, lest we deviate.
For if the word spoken through the angels was firm, and every transgression and disobedience received just retribution,
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation? Which, having begun to be published by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those who heard,
God witnessing together with them, with signs and wonders, and various miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
Because God did not submit to the dominion of the angels the coming world, of which we speak.
But someone testified in a certain place, saying: What is man, so that you may have a memory of him? Or the son of man, to visit him?
You made him a little less than the angels; You crowned him with glory and honor, and put him over the works of your hands;
all things fastened under his feet. Because as soon as he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him; but we still do not see that all things are subject to it.
But we see the one who was made a little less than the angels, Jesus, crowned with glory and honor for the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for all.
For it was fitting for him for whose cause all things are, and for whom all things subsist, that having brought many sons to glory, he would perfect by afflictions the author of their salvation.
For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all one; therefore he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying: I will announce your name to my brothers, in the midst of the congregation I will praise you.
And again: I will trust him. And again: Behold, me and the children that God gave me.
So, since the children participated in flesh and blood, he also participated in the same, to destroy, through death, the one who had the empire of death, namely, the devil,
and to free all those who, for fear of death, were subject to bondage throughout their lives.
Because he certainly did not help the angels, but he did help Abraham's offspring.
Therefore, in all things he must be like his brothers, to become a merciful and faithful high priest in what concerns God, to atone for the sins of the people.
For inasmuch as he himself suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.