Because the law, having the shadow of the goods to come and not the very form of these realities, can never, by means of the same sacrifices that are offered continuously from year to year, make perfect those who come near.
Otherwise, wouldn't they have stopped being offered? Because those who offer this cult, once purified, would no longer be aware of sin.
However, every year the sins are remembered with these sacrifices,
for the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sins.
Therefore, entering the world, he says: Sacrifice and offering you did not want, but you prepared a body for me.
Burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin did not please you;
So I said, "Here I am to do, oh God, your will!" as in the scroll of the book it is written of me [a].
Having said above: Sacrifices and offerings, burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you did not want or like (things that are offered according to the law),
then he said: Here I am to do your will! He removes the first to establish the second.
It is in that will that we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ made once for all.
Every priest has come, day after day, to serve in worship and often offer the same sacrifices that can never take away sins.
But this one, having offered a single sacrifice for sins, sat forever at the right hand of God,
waiting thereafter until their enemies are made their footstool.
For with one offering he has perfected forever those who are sanctified.
The Holy Spirit also gives us testimony, because after having said:
"This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days," says the Lord; "I will put my laws in your heart, and I will inscribe them in your mind",
he adds: "I will never remember their sins and iniquities" [b].
For where there is forgiveness of sins there is no more offering for sin.
So, brothers, having full confidence to enter the most holy place through the blood of Jesus,
by the new and living way that he opened for us through the veil (that is, his body),
and having a great priest over the house of God,
Let us draw near with a sincere heart, in full assurance of faith, our hearts cleansed of bad conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the confession of hope without hesitation, for he who has promised is faithful.
Let us consider each other to stimulate love and good works.
Let's not stop congregating, as some have by habit; Rather, let us exhort ourselves, and all the more so when we see the day approaching.
Because if we sin voluntarily after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there is no more sacrifice for sin
but a horrendous expectation of judgment and burning fire that must devour adversaries.
He who has rejected the law of Moses must die without compassion for the testimony of two or three witnesses.
How much more punishment do you think he will deserve who has trampled on the Son of God, who has considered of little importance the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified and who has insulted the Spirit of grace?
Because we know the one who has said: "Vengeance is mine; I will give retribution" [c]. And again: "The Lord will judge his people" [d].
It is a horrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God!
Bring to mind the days of the past when, after being enlightened, you endured great conflict and affliction.
On the one hand, they were made a public spectacle with reproaches and tribulations. On the other hand, they were made companions of those who have been in such a situation.
They also took pity on the prisoners and joyfully suffered when they were stripped of their possessions, knowing that you yourselves have a superior and lasting possession [e].
So do not discard your trust, which has a great reward.
Because perseverance is necessary for them so that, having done the will of God, they obtain what is promised;
because: Even a little, in a little more the one who is to come will come and will not take long.
But my [f] just will live by faith; and if you go back, it will not please my soul [g].
But we are not of those who turn back for perdition but of those who have faith for the preservation of the soul.