Now even the first covenant had ordinances of worship and an earthly sanctuary.
Because the tabernacle was arranged like this: in the first part, called the holy place, were the candlestick, the table, and the showbread.
Behind the second veil was the part of the tabernacle called the Holy of Holies,
where there was a gold censer, and the ark of the covenant covered with gold everywhere, in which there was a gold urn containing the manna, and the rod of Aaron that grew green and the tablets of the covenant;
and upon it the cherubs of glory that covered the mercy seat; these things cannot now be discussed in detail.
And these things were thus ordered, in the first part of the tabernacle the priests continually entered to fulfill the functions of their ministry;
but in the second part, only the high priest entered once a year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the sins of the people committed in ignorance,
the Holy Spirit implying with this that the way to the Holy of Holies had not yet been revealed, while the first part of the tabernacle was still standing.
Which was a symbol for that time, according to which offerings and sacrifices were offered that they could not make perfect, in terms of conscience, to the one who officiated;
consisting only of food and drink, and various body washes and ordinances, imposed until the time of renewal.
But, Christ having become high priest of the good things to come, by the widest and most perfect tabernacle, not made by hands, namely, not of this creation,
and not by the blood of goats or calves, but by his own blood, he entered once and for all in the Holy of Holies, having obtained eternal redemption.
For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of the heifer, sprinkled on the unclean, sanctify for the purification of the flesh,
How much more the blood of Christ, the one who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, will cleanse your consciences of dead works so that you serve the living God?
So, therefore, he is a mediator of the New Testament, so that, when a death intervenes for the remission of the transgressions that were under the first testament, those who are called receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Because where there is a will, it is necessary for the testator's death to occur.
Because the will with death is confirmed, because it is not valid while the testator lives.
Hence, even the first covenant was not consecrated without blood.
For when Moses had read all the commandments of the law to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and of the goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled the book itself and also all the people,
saying: This is the blood of the will that God has sent you.
And besides this, he also sprinkled with blood the tabernacle and all the utensils of the ministry.
And almost everything is purified, according to the law, with blood; and without bloodshed there is no remission.
It was necessary, therefore, that the figures of heavenly things be purified with these things; but heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
For Christ did not enter the sanctuary made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself to present himself now before us to God.
And not to offer himself many times, as the high priest enters the Holy of Holies every year with the blood of others;
otherwise it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times from the beginning of the world; but now, at the consummation of the centuries, he has come forward once and forever, to nullify sin by sacrificing himself.
And in the way that is established for men to die once, and after this the judgment,
so also Christ was offered only once to bear the sins of many; and the second time, without sin, he will appear to save those who await him.