Brotherly love remain.
Do not forget about hospitality, because for this some, without knowing it, hosted angels.
Remember the prisoners, as if you were prisoners together with them; and of the afflicted, since you yourselves are also in the body.
Marriage is honorable in all and the bed undefiled; but fornicators and adulterers will be judged by God.
Be your customs without greed; happy with what you have now, because he said: I will not abandon you or leave you.
In such a way that we confidently say: The Lord is my helper; I will not fear what man can do to me.
Remember your shepherds, who spoke the word of God to you; consider what has been the result of his conduct, and imitate his faith.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, and today and forever.
Do not be carried here and there by diverse and strange doctrines; for it is a good thing to affirm the heart in grace, and not in the foods that were never used by those who cared for them.
We have an altar, from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.
For the bodies of those animals, whose blood, by sin, is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore also Jesus, to sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered outside the gate of the city.
So let us go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach.
Because we do not have a permanent city here, but we look for the one to come.
So, through him let us always offer God a sacrifice of praise, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And do not forget to do good and share, because God is pleased with such sacrifices.
Obey your pastors and submit to them, because they watch over your souls, as those who must give an account, so that they do it with joy, and without complaining, because this is not profitable for you.
Pray for us, because we trust that we have a good conscience, wishing to behave well in everything.
And even more, I beg you to do so, so that I may be restored to you sooner.
And the God of peace who raised from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
He makes you fit in every good work so that you do his will, doing in you what is pleasant before him through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I beg you, brothers, to bear the word of exhortation, because I have written briefly to you.
Know that our brother Timothy is free, with whom, if he comes soon, I will go to see you.
Greet all your pastors and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.