Brotherly love remain.
Do not forget about hospitality because some of them hosted angels without knowing it.
Remember the prisoners as if you were in chains with them; and of the afflicted, since you are also in the body.
Marriage is honorable [a] to all, and the conjugal relationship is pure; because God will judge fornicators and adulterers.
Let their customs be without love of money, content with what they have now because he himself has said: I will never abandon you nor will I ever forsake you [b].
So we can confidently say: The Lord is my help, and I will not fear. What can man do to me? [C].
Remember your leaders who spoke the word of God to you. Considering the success of your way of living, imitate your faith.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever!
Do not be misled by various and strange doctrines; for it is good that the heart has been established in grace; not in foods that were never used by those who dedicate themselves to them.
We have an altar from which those who serve in the tabernacle have no right to eat.
Because the bodies of those animals, whose blood is introduced by the high priest in the most holy place as a sacrifice for sin, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore, Jesus also suffered outside the city gate to sanctify the people through his own blood.
So let us go out to him, outside the camp, bearing his affront.
Because here we do not have a permanent city but we look for the one that is to come.
So, through him, let us always offer God a sacrifice of praise; that is, the fruit of lips that confess its name.
Do not forget to do good and share what you have because such sacrifices please God.
Obey your leaders and submit to them because they watch over your life as those who will give an account; so that they do it with joy and without complaining because this would not be beneficial to them.
Pray for us, because we trust that we have a good conscience and we want to conduct ourselves well in everything.
With greater insistence I implore that they do so that I may be restored soon.
And the God of peace, who raised our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, from the blood of the everlasting covenant,
make them fit in all that is good to do his will, he doing in us [d] that which is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Please, brothers, welcome this word of exhortation because I have written briefly to you.
Know that our brother Timothy has been released. If he comes soon, I will go see them with him.
Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all [e].