Therefore, leaving the elementary doctrines of Christ, let us go on to maturity without laying again the foundation of repentance for dead works, of faith in God,
of the doctrine of baptisms, of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do if God allows it.
Because it is impossible that those who were once enlightened - who liked the gift of heaven, who became partakers of the Holy Spirit,
who also tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come—
and then they relapsed, be renewed again for repentance since they crucify the Son of God again for themselves and expose him to reproach.
Because the earth, which drinks the rain that often falls on it and produces grass for the benefit of those who cultivate it, receives the blessing of God.
But the one that produces thorns and thistles is discarded, it is close to the curse and its purpose is to be burned.
But although we speak like this, beloved ones, as for you, we are persuaded of better things that belong to salvation.
Because God is not unfair to forget your work and the love that you have shown by name, because you have attended to the saints and continue to do so.
But we want each one of you to show the same diligence to achieve full certainty of hope until the end,
so that they are not lazy but imitators of those who, by faith and patience, inherit the promises.
Because when God made the promise to Abraham, since he could not swear by another greater one he swore by himself [a]
saying: I will bless you with a blessing and I will multiply you greatly [b].
And so Abraham, waiting with great patience, reached the promise.
Because men swear by the one who is greater than themselves, and for them the oath for confirmation ends all controversies.
Therefore God, wanting to convincingly demonstrate to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, guaranteed it with an oath
so that, for two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a very strong encouragement, those of us who have come to grasp the hope set before us.
We have hope as the anchor of life, secure and firm, and that penetrates even within the veil
where Jesus entered for us as forerunner, made high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.