Therefore, let us fear, lest while the promise of entering his rest still remain, some of you seem not to have reached it.
Because in truth, the good news has been announced to us, as well as to them; But the word they heard did not benefit them because it was not accompanied by faith in those who heard it.
For we who have believed enter into that rest, just as He has said: As I swore in my wrath, "they will not enter into my rest," even though His works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For thus he has said in a certain place about the seventh day: And God rested on the seventh day from all his works;
and again in this passage: they will not enter into my rest.
Therefore, since there is still some to enter, and those to whom the good news was previously announced did not enter because of their disobedience,
God again sets a day: Today. Saying through David after a long time, as has been said before: If you hear his voice today, do not harden your hearts.
Because if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day after that.
There remains, therefore, a sacred rest for the people of God.
For he who has entered his rest has himself rested from his works, as God rested from his.
Therefore, let us strive to enter that rest, lest anyone fall following the same example of disobedience.
Because the word of God is alive and effective, and sharper than any two-edged sword; It penetrates to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and is powerful in discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
And there is no created thing hidden from his view, but all things are exposed and naked before the eyes of the one to whom we have to give an account.
Having, therefore, a great High Priest who transcended the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us retain our faith.
Because we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in everything like us, but without sin.
Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.