So faith is the certainty of what is expected, the conviction of what is not seen.
Because the ancients approved of it.
By faith we understand that the worlds were formed by the word of God, so that what is seen was what was not seen.
By faith Abel offered God a better sacrifice than Cain, for which he received testimony that he was just, God approving of his offerings; and dead, he still speaks for her.
By faith Enoch was transferred so as not to see death, and he was not found, because God transferred him. And before he was transferred, he had testimony that he had pleased God.
But without faith it is impossible to please God; because it is necessary that the one who approaches God believes that he exists and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him.
By faith Noah, having been warned by God about things not yet seen, fearfully prepared the ark for his house to be saved; by that faith he condemned the world, and was made heir to the justice that is according to faith.
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out to the place that he was to receive as an inheritance; and left without knowing where he was going.
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the promised land as in another's land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, joint heirs of the same promise,
because he expected the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
By faith, Sarah herself, being sterile, received strength to conceive; and she gave birth even outside the time of the age, because she considered that the one who had promised was faithful.
So also, from one, and that almost dead, they came out like the stars of the sky in multitudes, and like the innumerable sand that is on the seashore.
In the faith all these died without having received the promised things, but looking at them from afar, and believing them, and accepting them, and confessing that they were foreigners and pilgrims on earth.
Because those who say this clearly imply that they are looking for a homeland,
because if they had really remembered where they came from, they would have had time to return.
But they wanted a better one, namely the heavenly one; therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, because he had prepared a city for them.
By faith Abraham, when tested, offered Isaac; and he who had received the promises offered his only begotten son,
having been told: In Isaac you will be called offspring,
considering that God is powerful to raise even from the dead, from where, figuratively, he also received him again.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau regarding things to come.
By faith Jacob, being ready to die, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the end of his staff.
By faith Joseph, on the brink of death, mentioned the departure of the children of Israel, and gave a commandment concerning their bones.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden by his parents for three months, because they saw him as a beautiful child and did not fear the edict of the king.
By faith Moses, now grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, rather than enjoying the temporal pleasures of sin.
Taking Christ's reproach for greater riches than the treasures of the Egyptians; because he had his sights set on the reward.
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the king's wrath, because he held himself as if he were seeing the Invisible.
By faith he celebrated Easter and the sprinkling of blood, so that he who killed the firstborn would not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land; and when the Egyptians tried to do the same, they were drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell after surrounding them seven days.
By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish along with the unbelievers, for she had received the spies in peace.
And what else do I say? For I would not have time to count Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, as well as Samuel and the prophets,
who by faith conquered kingdoms, did justice, reached promises, covered lions' mouths,
they put out wild fires, avoided the edge of the sword, drew strength from weakness, became strong in battles, and put foreign armies to flight.
Women received their dead through the resurrection; but others were tortured, not accepting the ransom, to obtain a better resurrection;
others experienced vituperation and flogging, and in addition to this, prisons and jails;
they were stoned, sawn, put to the test, killed by the sword; they walked back and forth covered in the skins of sheep and goats, poor, anguished and mistreated;
Of which the world was not worthy, they wandered through the deserts, through the mountains, through the caves and through the caves of the earth.
And all these, although approved by the testimony of the faith, did not see the fulfillment of the promise,
God providing something better for us, so that they would not be perfected without us.