Because this Melchizedek, king of Salem and priest of the Most High God, went to meet Abraham who returned from defeating the kings, and blessed him.
Likewise, Abraham gave him tithes of all [a]. First of all, his name means "king of justice"; and he was also king of Salem, which means "king of peace".
Without father or mother or genealogy, it has no beginning of days or end of life; and in this he resembles the Son of God: in that he remains a priest forever.
Look, then, how great was he to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave tithes of the spoils.
Certainly, those descendants of Levi who have received the priesthood have, according to the law, the commandment to receive tithes from the people, that is, from their brothers, although they are also descendants of Abraham.
But he, whose genealogy is not numbered among them, received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises.
Unquestionably, the one who is less is blessed by the greater.
Here men who die receive tithes, while there they receive the one about whom it has been testified that he lives.
And so to speak, in the person of Abraham also Levi, the one who receives tithes, gave the tithe.
Because he was still in his father's body when Melchizedek met him.
Now, if it were possible to achieve perfection through the Levitical priesthood (because under it the people have received the law), what need would there still be for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not to be called according to the Aaron's order?
Because if there is a change of priesthood, it is necessary that a change of law is also made.
For the one of whom this is said is from another tribe of which no one has served on the altar.
Because it is evident that our Lord was born from the tribe of Judah, about which Moses said nothing about the priesthood.
This is even more evident if another priest rises to the likeness of Melchizedek,
who has not been constituted according to the commandment of the law regarding the carnal lineage but according to the power of an indestructible life.
For this testimony is given of him: You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek [b].
In truth, the previous commandment was repealed for being ineffective and useless,
because the law did not perfect anything. However, a higher hope is introduced by which we draw near to God.
And this was not done without an oath.
The others were made priests without an oath, while this one was made by the oath of the one who said to him: The Lord swore and will not repent: "You are a priest forever" [c].
Likewise, Jesus has been made a surety of a superior covenant.
In truth, many were made priests because, due to death, they could not remain.
But this one, because he remains forever, has a perpetual priesthood.
For this reason he can also completely save those who draw near to God through him, since he lives forever to intercede for them.
Because such a high priest suited us: holy, innocent, pure, set apart from sinners and exalted beyond heaven.
He does not have the need every day, like the other high priests, to offer sacrifices, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, because he did this once and for all, offering himself.
The law constitutes weak men as high priests; but the word of the oath, after the law, constituted the Son, made perfect forever.