Therefore, we too, having around us such a great cloud of witnesses, let us put aside all the weight and sin that surrounds us, and run with patience the race that lies ahead,
with their eyes on Jesus, the author and finisher of the faith, who, for the joy set before him, suffered the cross, belittling shame, and sat at the right hand of the throne of God.
Consider him who suffered such a contradiction of sinners against himself, lest you be weary in your soul until you faint.
For you have not yet resisted until you shed blood, fighting against sin;
and you have already forgotten the exhortation that is addressed to you as children, saying: My son, do not despise the discipline of the Lord, nor lose heart when you are rebuked by him.
For the Lord who loves, disciplines, and scourges everyone he receives as a son.
If you endure discipline, God treats you like children; for what son is he whom the father does not discipline?
But if you are left without discipline, of which all have been participants, then you are bastards, and not children.
On the other hand, we had our earthly fathers who disciplined us and revered them, why don't we obey the Father of the spirits much better, and live?
And those, indeed, for a few days disciplined us as they seemed, but this for what is profitable for us, so that we share in his holiness.
It is true that no discipline at present seems to be a cause of joy, but of sadness; but afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained in it.
Therefore strengthen your dropped hands and weak knees;
and make straight paths for your feet, so that the one who is lame does not get out of the way, but is healed.
Follow peace with all, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord,
watching well that no one departs from the grace of God, lest some root of bitterness, sprouting, hinders you, and by it many are defiled;
let no one be a fornicator, or profane, like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
Because you know that even later, wanting to inherit the blessing, he was rejected because he found no occasion for repentance, although he sought it with tears.
For you have not come near the touchable mountain, nor the burning fire, nor the darkness, nor the darkness, nor the storm,
neither to the sound of the trumpet nor to the voice that spoke, which those who heard it begged not to speak to them anymore;
because they could not bear what was commanded: If even a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned or pierced with a dart.
And so terrible was what was seen that Moses said: I am terrified and trembling.
But you have approached Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and the company of many thousands of angels,
and to the assembly and the church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
and to Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's.
Make sure not to ditch who is speaking. Because if those who rejected the one who warned them on earth did not escape, much less we, if we reject the one who warns from heaven.
The voice of the one who shook the earth then, but now has promised, saying: Once more, and I will shake not only the earth, but also the sky.
And this phrase: Yet again, it clearly indicates the removal of things that can be removed, such as created things, so that things that cannot be removed remain.
So, as we receive the unshakable kingdom, let us retain the grace by which we will serve God, pleasing him with fear and reverence;
because our God is a consuming fire.