Therefore, leaving the beginning of the doctrine of Christ, we go forward to perfection, not laying again the foundation of repentance for dead works, and faith in God,
of the doctrine of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do, if God really allows it.
Because it is impossible that those who were once enlightened and liked the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
and they also liked the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
and they fell, be renewed again for repentance, since they crucify the Son of God again for themselves and expose him to reproach.
For the land that drinks the rain that often falls on it, and produces beneficial grass for those for whom it is tilled, receives a blessing from God;
but the one that produces thorns and thistles is reproved, and is about to be cursed; and its purpose is to be burned.
But as for you, beloved ones, we are persuaded of better things that belong to salvation, even though we speak thus.
Because God is not unfair to forget your work and the work of love that you have shown towards his name, having still ministered and ministered to the saints.
But we want each of you to show the same diligence to the end, for the full fulfillment of hope,
so that you do not become lazy, but imitators of those who by faith and patience inherit the promises.
Because when God made the promise to Abraham, unable to swear by another greater, he swore by himself,
saying: Verily, I will bless you greatly and multiply you greatly.
And having waited with great patience, he reached the promise.
For men certainly swear by one greater than themselves; and the end of all their controversies is the oath for confirmation.
Therefore, God willing to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, he confirmed it with an oath,
so that for two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we have a very great consolation, those of us who seek refuge to grasp the hope set before us;
which we have as a sure and firm anchor of the soul, and that penetrates into the veil;
where Jesus entered for us as forerunner, made high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.