Because the law, having the shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of things, can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered each year, make those who approach perfect.
Otherwise, would they not stop offering themselves ?, because those who worship, once cleansed, would no longer be aware of sin.
But in these sacrifices each year memory of sins is made.
Because the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sins.
Therefore, entering the world, he says: Sacrifice and offering you did not want; but you prepared me a body.
Holocausts and sin offerings you were not pleased.
Then I said: Here I am (as in the scroll of the book it is written about me) to do, O God, your will.
Saying above: Sacrifice and offering, and burnt offerings and expiations for sin you did not want, nor did you like (which things are offered according to the law),
Then he said: Here I am to do, O God, your will. Take away the first, to establish the second.
In that will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ made once and for all.
So every priest shows up every day ministering and offering many times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
But Christ, having offered a single sacrifice for sins forever, has sat down at the right hand of God,
thereafter waiting until his enemies are placed on his footstool.
For with one offering he made the sanctified forever perfect.
And the Holy Spirit testifies to us the same, because after saying:
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will write them in their minds,
He adds: And I will never again remember his sins and iniquities.
For where there is remission of these, there is no more offering for sin.
So, brothers, having freedom to enter the Holy of Holies through the blood of Jesus Christ,
by the new and living way that he consecrated us, through the veil, that is, of his flesh,
and having a great priest over the house of God,
Let us draw near with a sincere heart, in full assurance of faith, our hearts purified from a bad conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without hesitation, because faithful is he who promised.
And let us consider each other to motivate us to love and good works;
not ceasing to congregate, as some have by habit, but exhorting us; and all the more, when you see that day is approaching.
Because if we sin voluntarily after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there is no more sacrifice for sins,
but a horrendous expectation of judgment and burning fire that must devour the adversaries.
He who despises the law of Moses, by the testimony of two or three witnesses, dies without any mercy.
How much more punishment do you think he will deserve when he tramples on the Son of God and considers the blood of the covenant as unclean, in which he was sanctified, and offends the Spirit of grace?
For we know who it is who said: Vengeance is mine, I will give the payment, says the Lord. And again: The Lord will judge his people.
It is a horrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God!
But bring to mind the past days, in which, after having been enlightened, you endured a great battle of afflictions;
On the one hand, certainly, with reproaches and tribulations you were made a spectacle, and on the other hand, you became companions of those who were in a similar situation.
Because of my imprisonments you also had compassion, and the stripping of your possessions you suffered with joy, knowing that you have in you a better and lasting possession in heaven.
So do not lose your confidence, which has a great reward,
because patience is necessary for you, so that, having done the will of God, you obtain the promise.
For in a little while the one who is to come will come, and will not delay.
But the righteous will live by faith; and if you go back, it will not please my soul.
But we are not of those who turn back to perdition, but of those who have faith for the preservation of the soul.