Faith is the constancy of the things that are expected, the verification of the facts that are not seen.
The ancients received a good testimony for it.
By faith we understand that the universe was constituted by the word of God, so that what is seen was made of what was not seen.
By faith Abel offered God a sacrifice superior to that of Cain. Through her he received testimony of being just, because God gave testimony when accepting his offerings. And through faith, even though he died, he still speaks.
By faith Enoch was transferred so as not to see death and was not found, because God had transferred him. Before his transfer, he received testimony that he had pleased God [a].
And without faith it is impossible to please God, because it is necessary that the one who approaches God believes that he exists and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him.
By faith Noah, having been warned by revelation about things not yet seen, moved by reverent fear prepared the ark for the salvation of his family. Through faith he condemned the world and became heir to the righteousness that is according to faith.
By faith Abraham, when called, obeyed to go out to the place he was to receive by inheritance; and left without knowing where he was going.
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the promised land as in another's land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the joint heirs of the same promise,
because he was waiting for the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
By faith, even though Sarah herself was sterile, he [b] received the strength to father a son when he had passed the age; because he considered that the one who had promised it was faithful.
And therefore, from one alone, and being dead as regards these things, children were born as the stars of the sky in multitudes and as the innumerable sand that is on the seashore.
According to their faith, all of these died without having received the fulfillment of the promises. Rather, they looked at them from afar and greeted them, and confessed that they were foreigners and pilgrims on earth.
Those who thus speak clearly imply that they are looking for another homeland.
Well, if they really remembered the land they came from, they would have the opportunity to return.
But they yearned for a superior homeland; that is, the heavenly. So God is not ashamed to call themselves their God, because he has prepared a city for them.
By faith Abraham, when tested, offered Isaac. He who had received the promises offered his only son
about whom it was said: In Isaac will you be called offspring [c].
He considered God powerful to raise even from the dead. Hence, figuratively speaking, he received it again.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau regarding the future.
By faith Jacob, when he died, blessed each of Joseph's sons and worshiped leaning on the head of his staff [d].
By faith Joseph, reaching the end of his days, remembered the exodus of the children of Israel and gave a commandment regarding their remains.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden by his parents for three months because they saw that he was a beautiful child and because they did not fear the king's command.
By faith Moses, when he became great, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Rather, he preferred to receive mistreatment together with the people of God than to enjoy for a time the pleasures of sin.
He considered the reproach for Christ as riches superior to the treasures of the Egyptians, because he fixed his gaze on the reward.
By faith he left Egypt without fear of the king's wrath because he remained as one who sees the Invisible.
By faith he celebrated Easter and the sprinkling of blood so that he who destroyed the firstborn would not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land; but when the Egyptians tried, they were flooded.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell after being surrounded for seven days.
By faith the prostitute Rajab did not perish along with the unbelievers, because she received the spies in peace.
What else shall I say? I would lack the time to tell about Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel and the prophets.
By faith these conquered kingdoms, did justice, reached promises, covered lions' mouths,
They quelled the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, drew strength from weakness, became powerful in battle, and put the armies of foreigners to flight.
Women received their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, not agreeing to be rescued, to obtain a better resurrection.
Others received evidence of mockery and spanking, in addition to chains and jail.
They were stoned, sawn, put to the test [of], killed by the sword. They walked from one side to the other covered in sheep and goat skins; poor, anguished, mistreated.
The world was not worthy of them. They wandered through the deserts, through the mountains, through the caves and through the caves of the earth.
And all these, although they received good testimony by faith, did not receive the fulfillment of the promise
so that they would not be perfected apart from us; because God had provided something better for us.