Now the first covenant had regulations regarding worship and the earthly sanctuary.
The tabernacle was arranged thus: In the first part, in what they call the holy place, were the lamps, the table, and the loaves of the Presence.
Behind the second veil was the part of the tabernacle called the Holy of Holies.
There were the golden censer and the Ark of the Covenant entirely covered with gold. In it were a golden vase containing the manna, the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tablets of the covenant.
Above her, the cherubs of glory covered the mercy seat. Of all these things we cannot speak in detail now.
These things were arranged thus: In the first part of the tabernacle the priests always entered to carry out the services of the cult.
But in the second, once a year the high priest entered alone, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the sins that the people committed out of ignorance.
With this the Holy Spirit implied that the way to the most holy place had not yet been shown while the first part of the tabernacle was standing.
This is a figure for the present time, according to which offerings and sacrifices were offered that they could not make perfect, in terms of conscience, to the one who worshiped.
These are meat ordinances, consisting only of food and drink and various washing, imposed until the time of renewal.
But with Christ already present — the high priest of the goods that have come [to], through the most extensive and perfect tabernacle not made of hands; that is, not of this creation—
once he entered the most holy place, thus achieving eternal redemption, no longer through the blood of goats or calves but through his own blood.
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled on the impure, they sanctify for the purification of the body,
How much more the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, will cleanse our conscience of dead works to serve the living God!
For this reason, he is also a mediator of the new covenant, so that those who have been called receive the promise of eternal inheritance, since death intervened to redeem them from transgressions under the first covenant.
Because where there is a will, it is necessary to present proof of the death of the testator.
The will is confirmed with death, since it is not valid as long as the testator lives.
For this reason, not even the first will was inaugurated without blood.
For Moses having declared all the commandments according to the law to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats along with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book itself and also all the people
saying: This is the blood of the covenant, which God has commanded [b].
And he also sprinkled with blood the tabernacle and all the utensils of the service
because, according to the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without bloodshed there is no forgiveness.
It was therefore necessary to purify the figures of heavenly things with these rites; but the same heavenly things with sacrifices superior to these.
Because Christ did not enter a most holy place made of hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself to present himself before God on our behalf now.
Nor did he enter to offer himself many times, as every year the high priest enters the most holy place with the blood of others.
Otherwise, it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times since the foundation of the world. But now, he has come once and for all at the consummation of the centuries to remove sin by sacrificing himself.
And in the way that it is established that men die once, and then the judgment,
so also Christ was offered only once to take away the sins of many. The second time, no longer related to sin, it will appear for salvation to those who wait for it.