Let us fear, then, that while the promise to enter his rest is still valid, some of you seem not to have reached it.
Because the gospel has been preached to us as well as to them; but they did not take advantage of hearing the word to those who heard it for not accompanying it with faith.
For we who have believed enter into rest, just as he said: As I swore in my wrath, they will not enter into my rest, even though their works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For in a certain place he said thus of the seventh day: And God rested from all his works on the seventh day.
And again here it says: They will not enter into my rest.
Therefore, since some are missing from entering it, and those to whom the gospel was first announced did not enter because of disobedience,
again determine a day, today, saying through David after so long, as it is said: If you heard his voice today, do not harden your hearts.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not speak after another day.
Therefore, there remains a rest for the people of God.
For he who has entered his rest has also rested from his works, as God did from his.
So let us try to enter that rest, so that no one will fall into such an example of disobedience.
Because the word of God is alive and effective, and sharper than any two-edged sword; and it penetrates until it breaks the soul and the spirit, and the joints and the marrows, and it discerns the thoughts and the intentions of the heart.
And there is no created thing that is not manifest in its presence; rather, all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account.
Therefore, having a great high priest, who has entered heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us retain the faith we profess.
For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who was tempted in every way according to our likeness, but without sin.
Let us approach, therefore, confidently to the throne of grace, to obtain mercy, and find grace for the opportune help.