For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who went out to meet Abraham who was returning from the defeat of the kings, and blessed him,
To whom also Abraham gave tithes of all, whose name means first King of justice, and also King of Salem, that is, King of peace;
without father, without mother, without genealogy; who has no beginning of days, nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, remains a priest forever.
Consider, then, how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave tithes of the spoil.
And certainly those who among the sons of Levi receive the priesthood have a commandment to receive tithes according to the law from the people, that is, from their brothers, although these also have come from the backs of Abraham.
But the one whose genealogy is not numbered from among them took tithes from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises.
And, without contradiction, the one who is less is blessed by the one who is greater.
And here indeed mortal men receive tithes; but there, one of whom testifies that he lives.
And, so to speak, Levi, who receives tithes, has also paid tithes in Abraham,
because he was still on his father's back when Melchizedek met him.
If, therefore, perfection were for the Levitical priesthood (because under him the people received the law), what need would there still be for another priest to arise, according to the order of Melchizedek, and not to be called according to the order of Aaron ?
As the priesthood changed, it is necessary that the law also be changed.
For the one of whom this is said is from another tribe, of which no one officiated at the altar.
Because it is evident that our Lord was born from the tribe of Judah, about whose tribe Moses spoke nothing regarding the priesthood.
And it is even more evident, if in the likeness of Melchizedek another priest rises,
that it is not done according to the law of the carnal commandment about descent, but according to the power of an indestructible life;
for it bears witness to him: You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
The previous commandment is certainly abrogated by its weakness and uselessness;
for nothing perfected the law, but accomplished the introduction of a better hope, by which we draw near to God.
And this was not done without an oath
(because in truth the others without oath were made priests; but this one, with the oath of the one who said to him: The Lord swore, and will not repent: You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek);
therefore, Jesus is made a surety of a better covenant.
And indeed there were many priests, because by death they could not continue.
But this one, inasmuch as it remains forever, has an immutable priesthood.
For this reason he can also entirely save those who draw near to God through him, always living to intercede for them.
For such a high priest suited us: holy, undefiled, clean, set apart from sinners, and made more sublime than the heavens;
that he has no need every day, like the other high priests, to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for those of the people, because he did this once and for all, offering himself.
Because the law constitutes high priests to weak men; but the word of the oath, after the law, constitutes the Son, made perfect forever.