They crossed Amphipolis and Apollonia and arrived at Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And according to his custom, Paul came to meet them, and for three Saturdays he argued with them based on the Scriptures,
explaining and demonstrating that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead. He said: "This Jesus, to whom I am announcing, is the Christ."
And some of them were convinced and joined Paul and Silas: a great number of the pious Greeks and not a few of the main women.
Then the Jews became jealous and took some wicked men from the street, and in a mob they made a noise of the city. Assaulting Jason's house, they tried to get them out into town.
When they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brothers before the governors of the city, shouting: "These who upset the whole world have also come here!
And Jason has received them. All of these act against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. "
The people and the governors were disturbed to hear these things;
but after obtaining bail from Jason and the others, they released them.
Then, without delay, the brothers sent Paul and Silas by night to Berea; and when they got there, they entered the synagogue of the Jews.
These were more noble than those of Thessalonica, for they received the word eagerly, searching the Scriptures every day to verify if these things were so.
Consequently, many of them believed; and also of distinguished Greek women and men, not a few.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God was announced by Paul also in Berea, they went there to incite and disturb the crowds.
Then the brothers immediately sent Paul out to go to the sea, while Silas and Timothy stayed there.
Those who led Paul took him to Athens; and after receiving orders for Silas and Timothy to come to meet him as soon as possible, they departed back.
As Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit burned within him when he saw that the city was given over to idolatry.
Therefore, he argued in the synagogue with the Jews and the pious, and every day in the main square, with those who attended there.
And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers disputed with him. Some said, "What does this babbler want to say?" Others said: —He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities. For he announced to them the gospel of Jesus and the resurrection.
They took him and took him to the Areopagus saying: —Can we know what this new doctrine of which you speak is?
Well, you bring to our ears some strange things; therefore we want to know what this means.
All the Athenians and outsiders who lived there spent no time in anything other than saying or hearing the latest news.
Then Paul stood up in the middle of the Areopagus and said: —Men of Athens: I observe that they are the most religious in all things.
Well, as I passed by and looked at its sacred monuments, I also found an altar on which was this inscription: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. To that, then, that you honor without knowing him, to this I announce.
This is the God who made the world and all the things in it. And since he is Lord of heaven and earth, he does not live in temples made of hands,
nor is it served by human hands as if he needed something, because he is the one who gives everyone life and breath and all things.
From one [a] has made every race of men, that they may dwell upon all the face of the earth. He has determined in advance the order of time and the limits of his room,
so that they search for God, if somehow, even groping, they feel and find him. Although, in truth, he is not far from any of us;
because "in him we live, we move and we are" [b]. As some of his poets have also said: "Because we are also his lineage" [c].
"Being, therefore, lineage of God, we should not think that the Divinity is similar to gold, or silver, or stone, sculpture of art and imagination of men.
For this reason, although before God ignored the times of ignorance, at this time He commands all men, in all places, to repent;
for he has established a day in which he is to judge the world with justice by means of the Man whom he has appointed, attesting to all, by raising him from the dead.
When they heard him mention the resurrection of the dead, some scoffed, but others said, "We will hear about this another time."
So it was that Paul came out from among them,
but some men joined him and believed. Among them was Dionysius, who was a member of the Areopagus, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.