When it was determined that we were to sail to Italy, Pablo and some other prisoners were handed over to a centurion named Julio of the Augusta company.
So we boarded an Adramiteña ship leaving for the ports of Asia, and set sail. Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica, was with us.
The next day, we docked at Sidon; and Julio, treating Pablo with kindness, allowed him to go to his friends and be cared for by them.
And having sailed from there, we sailed to the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.
After crossing the high seas in front of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Mira, the city of Lycia.
The centurion found an Alexandrian ship there that was sailing to Italy, and embarked us on it.
Sailing many days slowly, and having barely reached Gnido, because the wind prevented us, we sailed to the lee of Crete in front of Salmon.
And costing it with difficulty, we arrived at a place called Buenos Puertos, near which was the city of Lasea.
Since a long time had passed and navigation was becoming dangerous, because the Fast had already passed, Paul admonished them
saying: —Men, I see that navigation has to be carried out with damage and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.
But the centurion was more persuaded by the pilot and the captain of the ship, and not by what Pablo said.
Since the port was uncomfortable for wintering, most agreed to set sail there, in case they could somehow arrive at Fenice, a port of Crete that faces southwest and northwest, to winter there.
When a breeze from the south blew and it seemed to them that they had already achieved what they wanted, they hoisted sails and were costing Crete very closely.
But not long after, a hurricane-force wind called Euraquilon hit the ship.
As the ship was raptured and could not bow to the wind, we abandoned ourselves to it and were drifting.
We sailed to the lee of a small island called Cauda, ​​and we were barely able to retain the skiff.
And after taking it on board, they used reinforcements to secure the ship. But fearing to run aground in the Sirte, they lowered candles and allowed themselves to be carried away.
The next day, as we were shaken by a raging storm, they began to lighten the load;
and on the third day, with their own hands they threw the rigging of the ship.
Since neither the sun nor the stars appeared for many days and a small storm came, we were losing all hope of saving ourselves.
Then, since it had been a long time since we had eaten, Pablo stood up in their midst and said: —Oh gentlemen, they should have listened to me and not left Crete, to avoid this damage and loss.
But now I urge you to be of good cheer, for none of your lives will be lost, but only the ship.
Because tonight an angel of the God of who I am and whom I serve was with me,
and he said to me: "Do not be afraid, Paul. It is necessary that you appear before Caesar, and behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you."
Therefore, gentlemen, be of good cheer, because I trust God that it will be as he has told me.
But it is necessary that we give in some island.
When the fourteenth night came, and we were drifting across the Adriatic Sea, at midnight the sailors suspected that they were approaching some land.
They put in the probe and found forty meters. Passing a little further, they took the probe again and found thirty meters.
Fearing to stumble, they dropped the four anchors at the stern and longed for the sunrise.
As the sailors were trying to flee the ship, and threw the skiff into the sea pretending that they were going to launch the anchors of the bow,
Pablo said to the centurion and the soldiers: "If these do not remain in the ship, you will not be able to save yourselves."
Then the soldiers cut the mooring lines of the skiff and allowed it to be lost.
When dawn began, Pablo encouraged everyone to eat something, saying: —This is the fourteenth day that they watch and continue fasting without eating anything.
Therefore, I beg you to eat something, as this is for your health; for not a hair will perish on the head of any of you.
Having said this, he took bread, thanked God in the presence of all, and breaking it began to eat.
And when everyone got better spirits, they ate too.
There were a total of two hundred and seventy-six people on the ship.
Then, satisfied with the food, they lightened the ship by throwing the wheat into the sea.
When daylight came, they did not recognize the land; but they distinguished a bay that had a beach, in which, if possible, they intended to beach the ship.
They cut anchors and left them in the sea. At the same time, they released the mooring lines at the helm, hoisted the bow sail into the wind and headed for the beach.
But when they hit a sandbank between two currents, they ran the ship aground. When the bow was nailed, it remained motionless, while the stern was opened by the violence of the waves.
Then the soldiers agreed to kill the prisoners, so that none escaped by swimming;
but the centurion, wanting to free Pablo, frustrated his attempt. He commanded those who could swim to be the first to lie down to go ashore;
and the others, some in tables, and others in objects from the ship. Thus it happened that all arrived safely on land.