Brothers and parents, listen to my defense that I am now presenting to you.
When they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they observed even more silence; and he said*:
I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but raised in this city, educated under Gamaliel in strict accordance with the law of our parents, being as jealous of God as all of you are today.
And I pursued this Path until death, chaining and throwing both men and women in jails,
of which the high priest and the entire council of elders can testify. Also from them I received letters for the brothers, and I set out for Damascus with the purpose of bringing prisoners to Jerusalem also those who were there, to be punished.
And it came to pass that when I was on my way, being near Damascus, about noon, suddenly a very bright light flashed from the sky around me,
and I fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?"
And I answered: "Who are you, Lord?". And He said to me: "I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting."
And those who were with me saw the light, certainly, but they did not understand the voice of the one who spoke to me.
And I said, "What should I do, Lord?" And the Lord said to me, "Get up and go into Damascus, and there you will be told everything that you have been ordered to do."
But as I could not see because of the brightness of that light, those who were with me took me by the hand and I entered Damascus.
And one named Ananias, a godly man according to the norms of the law, and to whom all the Jews who lived there bore good witness,
He came to me, and standing next to me, he said: "Brother Saul, receive your sight." At that very moment I raised my eyes and looked at him.
And he said: "The God of our fathers has appointed you to know his will, and to see the Righteous One and hear a word from his mouth.
For you will be a witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.
And now why do you stop? Get up and get baptized, and wash your sins calling on his name. "
And it came to pass that when I returned to Jerusalem and found myself praying in the temple, I fell into an ecstasy,
and I saw the Lord saying to me: "Hurry up and leave Jerusalem soon because they will not accept your testimony about me."
And I said: "Lord, they know well that in one synagogue after another, I imprisoned and flogged those who believed in you.
And when the blood of your witness Esteban was spilled, there I was also giving my approval, and taking care of the cloaks of those who were killing him. "
But He said to me, "Go, because I am going to send you away, to the Gentiles."
They heard it until he said this, and then they raised their voices and said: Get that guy off the ground! He must not be allowed to live.
As they shouted and threw their cloaks and put dust in the air,
the commander ordered him to be taken to the barracks, saying that he must be spanked to find out why they were yelling at him in that way.
When they stretched him on leashes, Paul said to the centurion who was there: Is it lawful for you to scourge a Roman citizen without having tried him?
When the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and warned him, saying: What are you going to do? Because this man is Roman.
The commander came to Paul and said: Tell me, are you a Roman? And he said: Yes.
And the commander replied: I acquired this citizenship for a large amount of money. And Paul said: But I am a citizen by birth.
Then those who were going to spank him instantly released him; and the commander was also afraid when he learned that Paul was a Roman, and because he had bound him with chains.
The next day, wanting to know with certainty the cause for which the Jews accused him, he released him, and ordered the chief priests and the entire council to meet; And taking Paul, he put him before them.