Then Paul, staring at the council, said: Men, brothers, with all good conscience I have lived before God to this day.
The high priest Ananias then commanded those near him to strike him on the mouth.
Then Paul said to him: God will strike you, whitewashed wall! Are you sitting to judge me according to the law, and you command me to beat up against the law?
And those who were present said: Do you insult the high priest of God?
And Paul said: I did not know, brothers, that I was the high priest; for it is written, You shall not curse the prince of your people.
Then Paul, knowing that one part was of Sadducees and the other of Pharisees, cried out at the council: Male brothers, I am a Pharisee, son of a Pharisee; I am judged about the hope and the resurrection of the dead.
And when he had said this, there was dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Because the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit; but the Pharisees affirm these things.
And there was a great cry, and the scribes rising up from the Pharisees, they contended, saying, We find no evil in this man; that if a spirit has spoken to you, or angel, we do not resist God.
And when there was a great dissension, the tribune, fearing that Paul would be cut to pieces by them, commanded soldiers to come down, and snatch him from their midst and take him to the fortress.
And the next night the Lord appeared to him and said: Be of good cheer, Paul, because as you have testified of me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome.
And when the day came, some of the Jews hatched a plot and swore themselves under a curse, saying that they would not eat or drink until Paul had been killed.
And there were more than forty who had made this conjuration,
those who went to the chief priests and the elders and said: We have sworn under a curse not to like anything until we have killed Paul.
Now, then, you, with the council, request the tribune to bring him before you tomorrow, as if you want to find out something more certain about him; and we, before he arrives, we will be prepared to kill him.
Then Paul's sister's son, hearing of the trap, went and entered the fortress, and gave notice to Paul.
And Paul, calling one of the centurions, said: Take this young man to the tribune, because he has a certain warning to give him.
Then, taking him, he took him to the tribune and said: The prisoner Pablo called me and asked me to bring you this young man, who has something to talk to you about.
And the tribune, taking him by the hand and withdrawing aside, asked him: What do you have to say to me?
And he said: The Jews have agreed to ask you to take Paul before the council tomorrow, as if they are going to inquire something more certain about him.
But do not believe them, because more than forty of them stalk him, those who have sworn under a curse not to eat or drink until they have killed him; and now they are ready, waiting for your promise.
Then the tribune dismissed the young man, commanding him to tell no one that he had given notice of this.
And calling two centurions, he ordered two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen and two hundred lancers to be enlisted by the third hour of the night, to go to Caesarea;
and to prepare horses in which, putting Paul, they would bring him safely before Felix, the governor.
And he wrote a letter in these terms:
Claudio Lisias to the Most Excellent Governor Félix: Salud.
I freed this man, apprehended by the Jews, and that they were going to kill, going with the troops, knowing that he was a Roman citizen.
And wanting to know the reason for which they accused him, I took him to their council;
and I found that they charged him on matters of their law, but that no crime was worthy of death or imprisonment.
But when I was informed of the ambushes that the Jews had prepared for him, I immediately sent him to you, also ordering the accusers to try before you what they have against him. Have a good time
And the soldiers, taking Paul as he was commanded, took him by night to Antipatris.
And the next day, leaving the riders to go with him, they returned to the fortress.
And when they reached Caesarea, they gave the letter to the governor, and they also presented Paul before him.
And the governor, reading the letter, asked what province he was from; and having understood that it was from Cilicia,
He said to him: I will hear you when your accusers come. And he ordered that they guard him in Herod's judgment hall.