The first story I wrote, Theophilus, was about everything that Jesus began to do and teach,
until the day he was received upstairs, after he had given instructions by the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.
To these also, after his suffering, he appeared alive with many convincing proofs, appearing to them for forty days and speaking to them concerning the kingdom of God.
And gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father: Which, he said, you heard from me;
for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days.
Then those who were gathered asked him, saying: Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?
And He said to them: It is not for you to know the times or the times that the Father has set with his own authority;
but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you; and you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.
After saying these things, he was lifted up as they watched, and a cloud received him and hid him from his eyes.
And while staring at the sky as He ascended, it came to pass that two men in white robes appeared next to them,
who said to them: Men of Galilee, why are you looking at the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken from you to heaven, will come in the same way, just as you have seen him go to heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, on the way to a Sabbath.
When they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where Pedro, Juan, Jacobo and Andrés, Felipe and Tomás, Bartolomé and Mateo, Jacobo son of Alfeo, Simón el Zelote and Judas, son of Jacobo, were staying.
All of these were unanimous, continually dedicated to prayer together with the women, and with Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
At that time Peter stood up among the brothers (a group of about one hundred and twenty people was gathered there), and said:
Brethren, the Scripture had to be fulfilled in which through the mouth of David the Holy Spirit foretold about Judas, who became the guide of those who seized Jesus.
Because he was numbered among us and received part in this ministry.
(This, then, with the price of his infamy, he acquired a piece of land, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle, and all his entrails spilled.
And this came to the knowledge of all who lived in Jerusalem, so that that land was called Acéldama in its own language, that is, field of blood.)
For in the book of Psalms it is written: MAY HER DWELLING BE DESERTED, AND THERE IS NO ONE TO LIVE IN IT; and: LET ANOTHER TAKE YOUR POSITION.
Therefore, it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus lived among us,
beginning from the baptism of John, until the day when he was received from among us above, one is made a witness with us of his resurrection.
They presented two: José, called Barsabás (who was also called Justo) and Matías.
And having prayed, they said: You, Lord, who know the heart of all, show us which of these two you have chosen
to occupy this ministry and apostolate, from which Judas deviated to go to his rightful place.
They cast lots and luck fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.