And the high priest said: Is this so?
And he said: Listen to me, brothers and parents. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
and he said to him: "Get out of your land and from your relatives, and go to the land that I will show you."
So he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled in Haran. And from there, after the death of his father, God transferred him to this land where you now live.
He did not give her an inheritance, not even the sole of the foot, and yet, although she had no son, she promised that she would give it to him and his descendants after him.
And God said thus: "That their descendants would be foreigners in a strange land, and that they would be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years.
But I myself will judge any nation of which they are slaves, "said God," and after that they will go forth and serve me in this place. "
And God gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.
And the patriarchs were envious of Joseph and sold him to Egypt. But God was with him,
And he rescued him from all his afflictions, and gave him grace and wisdom before Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he made him ruler over Egypt and over all his house.
Then famine came over all Egypt and Canaan, and with it great affliction; and our parents could not find food.
But when Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our parents there the first time.
On the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Pharaoh learned of Joseph's lineage.
And Joseph, sending a message, sent for Jacob his father and all his relatives, a total of seventy-five people.
And Jacob went down to Egypt, and there he and our parents died.
And from there they were taken to Shechem, and placed in the grave that Abraham had bought for the sum of money from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
But as the time of the promise that God had confirmed to Abraham approached, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
until another king emerged in Egypt who knew nothing of Joseph.
This king, working cunningly against our people, mistreated our parents so that they would expose their children to death so that they would not live.
It was around this time that Moses was born. He was beautiful in God's sight, and he was raised for three months in his father's house.
After being abandoned to die, Pharaoh's daughter took him away and raised him as her own son.
And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was a powerful man in words and deeds.
But when he was about to turn forty, he felt in his heart the desire to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
And when he saw that one of them was treated unfairly, he defended him and avenged the oppressed by killing the Egyptian.
He thought that his brothers understood that God was giving them freedom through him, but they did not understand.
The next day he presented himself to them, when two of them quarreled, and tried to put peace between them, saying: "Men, you are brothers, why did you hurt each other?"
But the one who was hurting his neighbor pushed him, saying: "Who has made you ruler and judge over us?
Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? "
Hearing these words, Moses fled and became a foreigner in the land of Midian, where he was the father of two sons.
And after forty years, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning bush.
Seeing this, Moses marveled at the vision, and as he came closer to see better, the voice of the Lord came to him:
"I am the God of your parents, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." Trembling, Moses did not dare to look.
But the Lord said to him, "Take off your sandals from your feet, because the place where you are is holy ground.
I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt and heard their groans, and have come down to deliver them; Come now and I will send you to Egypt. "
This Moses, whom they rejected, saying: "Who has made you ruler and judge?" it is the same that God sent to be ruler and deliverer with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
This man brought them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the desert for forty years.
This is the same Moses who said to the children of Israel: "God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers."
This is the one who was in the congregation in the desert together with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our parents, and the one who received words of life to transmit them to you;
which our parents did not want to obey, but they repudiated him, and in their hearts they returned to Egypt,
saying to Aaron: "Make us gods that go before us, because we do not know what happened to this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt."
In those days they made a calf and offered sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of his hands.
But God turned away from them and gave them up to serve the army of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets: Was it you who offered victims and sacrifices in the desert for forty years, house of Israel?
You also brought the tabernacle of Moloc, and the star of the god Rentan, the images you made to worship them. I will also deport you beyond Babylon.
Our parents had the tabernacle of the testimony in the desert, just as the one who spoke to Moses had commanded it to do, according to the pattern he had seen.
In turn, having received it, our parents introduced it with Joshua when he took possession of the nations that God threw out from before our parents, until the days of David.
And David found grace before God, and asked the favor of finding a dwelling for the God of Jacob.
But it was Solomon who built him a house.
However, the Most High does not live in houses made by human hands; as the prophet says:
Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool; What house will you build me? Says the Lord, "Or what is the place of my rest?
Wasn't it my hand that did all these things?
You who are stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, always resist the Holy Spirit; As your parents did, so you also do.
Which of the prophets did your parents not persecute? They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the Just, of whom you now became traitors and murderers;
you who received the law by order of angels and yet did not keep it.
Hearing this, they were deeply offended, and gnashed their teeth against him.
But Stephen, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his eyes on heaven, saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;
And he said: Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and covering their ears they rushed one against him.
And throwing him out of the city, they began to stone him; and the witnesses put their cloaks at the feet of a young man named Saul.
And while they stoned Esteban, he invoked the Lord and said: Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
And falling to his knees, he cried aloud: Lord, do not take this sin into account. Having said this, he slept.