And the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended with him,
saying: Why have you entered the house of uncircumcised men and have eaten with them?
Then Peter began to tell them in order what had happened, saying:
I was in the city of Joppa praying, and I saw in ecstasy a vision: something, like a great canvas, descending, that by the four ends was taken down from the sky and came to me.
When I fixed my eyes on him, I saw and saw land quadrupeds, and wild beasts, and reptiles and birds of the sky.
And I heard a voice saying to me: Get up, Pedro, kill and eat.
And I said: Lord, no; because nothing common or unclean ever entered my mouth.
Then the voice answered me from heaven a second time: What God has cleansed, do not call it common.
And this happened three times, and everything was taken up to heaven again.
And behold, immediately three men came to the house where I was, sent to me from Caesarea.
And the Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. And these six brothers also went with me, and we entered a man's house.
He told us how he had seen an angel in his house who, standing up, said to him: Send men to Joppa and make Simon, whose surname is Peter, come,
Who will speak to you words by which you and your whole house will be saved.
And when I started to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them too, as on us at first.
Then I remembered what the Lord had said when he said: John certainly baptized in water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.
So, if God also gave them the same gift as we who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to resist God?
Then when these things were heard, they fell silent and glorified God, saying, "So also has the Gentiles given repentance to life!"
Now, those who had been scattered because of the tribulation that occurred in Stephen's time traveled to Phenicia, and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one, but only to the Jews.
And of them there were some Cypriot and Cyrene men, who, when they entered Antioch, also spoke to the Greeks, announcing the gospel of the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord.
And the news of these things came to the ears of the church that was in Jerusalem; and they sent Barnabas to go to Antioch,
who, when he came and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and exhorted everyone to remain steadfast in the Lord with purpose of heart.
Because Barnabas was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith; and a great multitude was added to the Lord.
Then Barnabas left for Tarsus to look for Saul; and when he found him, he took him to Antioch.
And they met a whole year there with the church and taught many people; and the disciples were called Christians for the first time in Antioch.
And in those days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And rising one of them, called Agabo, implied by the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine in all the inhabited earth, which occurred in the time of Claudius.
Then the disciples, each according to what he had, decided to send a relief to the brothers who lived in Judea;
which they also did, sending him to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.