Then Paul, staring at the council, said: Brothers, to this day I have lived before God with a perfectly clear conscience.
And the high priest Ananias commanded those near him to strike him in the mouth.
Then Paul said to him: God will strike you, whitewashed wall! Do you sit to judge me according to the law, and violate the law by ordering me to be beaten?
Those who were there watching said: Do you insult the high priest of God?
And Paul said: I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest; Because it is written: YOU WILL NOT SPEAK EVIL OF ONE OF THE AUTHORITIES OF YOUR PEOPLE.
Then Paul, realizing that one part was Sadducees and the other Pharisees, raised his voice in the council: Brothers, I am a Pharisee, son of Pharisees; I am judged on account of the hope of the resurrection of the dead.
When he said this, there was an altercation between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Because the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, no angel, no spirit, but the Pharisees believe all this.
Then there was a great uproar; and some of the scribes from the group of the Pharisees arose, argued heatedly, saying: We find nothing wrong with this man; but what if a spirit or an angel has spoken to you?
And when a great altercation arose, the commander feared that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, and ordered the troops to descend, forcefully remove him from among them and take him to the barracks.
The following night the Lord appeared to him and said: Be of good cheer, because as you have faithfully testified of my cause in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome.
When daylight came, the Jews hatched a conspiracy and pledged themselves under oath, saying that they would not eat or drink until they had killed Paul.
And those who hatched this conspiracy were more than forty,
who went to the chief priests and the elders and said: We have pledged ourselves under solemn oath not to prove anything until we have killed Paul.
Now then, you and the council, notify the commander to make him appear before you, as if you wanted to make a more thorough investigation to solve his case; we for our part are ready to kill him before he arrives.
But Paul's sister's son found out about the ambush, and he went and entered the barracks, and gave notice to Paul.
And Pablo, calling one of the centurions, said: Take this young man to the commander, because he has something to report to him.
Then, taking him with him, he led him to the commander, and said to him: "Pablo, the prisoner, called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to tell you.
And the commander, taking him by the hand, and taking him aside, asked him: What do you have to report to me?
And he answered: The Jews have agreed to ask you to take Paul to the council tomorrow with the pretext of making a more in-depth inquiry about him.
But pay no attention to them, because more than forty of them, who have pledged themselves not to eat or drink until they have killed him, are waiting in ambush; They are ready waiting for a promise from you.
Then the commander released the young man, entrusting him: Do not tell anyone that you have informed me of these things.
And calling two of the centurions, he said: Prepare two hundred soldiers by the third hour of the night, with seventy horsemen and two hundred lancers, to go to Caesarea.
They must also prepare horses for Paul, and bring him safely to Governor Felix.
And the commander wrote a letter in these terms:
Claudio Lisias, to the Most Excellent Governor Félix: Salud.
When this man was arrested by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them, knowing that he was a Roman, I went with the troops and rescued him.
And wanting to make sure of the cause for which they accused him, I took him to his council
and I found that they were charging him on matters of his law, but not on any charge that merited death or imprisonment.
When I was informed that there was a conspiracy against the man, I sent him to you immediately, also instructing his accusers to press charges against him.
So the soldiers, according to their orders, took Paul and took him to Antipatris at night.
And the next day they returned to the barracks leaving the horsemen to continue with him,
who, after arriving in Caesarea and delivering the letter to the governor, also presented him to Paul.
When the governor read it, he asked what province it was from; and upon learning that it was from Cilicia,
He said: I will hear you when your accusers are also present. And he ordered that they keep it in Herod's Praetorium.
