And it came to pass that while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul, having journeyed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus and met some disciples,
And he said to them: Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they answered him: No, we have not even heard if there is a Holy Spirit.
Then he said: In what baptism, then, were you baptized? They replied: At the baptism of John.
And Paul said: John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who would come after him, that is, in Jesus.
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
There were a total of about twelve men.
Paul entered the synagogue, and for three months he continued to speak boldly, arguing and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
But when some hardened and became disobedient by speaking ill of the Way before the crowd, Paul turned away from them, taking the disciples away, and argued daily at the Tyrant school.
This continued for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
And God performed extraordinary miracles by the hand of Paul,
in such a way that they even brought handkerchiefs or aprons from their bodies to the sick, and the diseases left them and the evil spirits left them.
But also some of the Jews, itinerant exorcists, tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus on those who had evil spirits, saying: I command you by Jesus, to whom Paul preaches.
And seven sons of a certain Esceva, one of the chief Jewish priests, were the ones who did this.
But the evil spirit answered, and said to them: I know Jesus, and I know who Paul is, but who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit was, threw himself on them and overpowered them more than they did, so that they fled from that house naked and wounded.
And all the inhabitants of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks, knew this; and fear seized them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was exalted.
Many of those who had believed also continued to come, confessing and declaring the things they practiced.
And many of those who practiced magic, gathering their books, burned them in full view; They calculated its price and found that it amounted to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Thus the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed.
After these things, Paul decided in the spirit to go to Jerusalem after touring Macedonia and Achaia, saying: After I have been there, I must also visit Rome.
And having sent to Macedonia two of his assistants, Timothy and Erastus, he remained in Asia for some time.
At that time there was no small commotion due to the Camino.
Because a certain silversmith named Demetrius, who carved Diana's silver temples and produced many profits for the craftsmen,
he gathered these together with the workers of similar offices, and said: Comrades, you know that our prosperity depends on this trade.
And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded a large number of people, and has separated them, saying that the gods made with hands are not true gods.
And we are not only in danger of our office falling into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana is considered worthless, and that she, who is worshiped by all of Asia and the entire world, will be stripped of her greatness.
When they heard this, they were filled with anger, and they cried out, saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
And the city was filled with confusion, and together they rushed into the theater, dragging Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul's traveling companions, who were from Macedonia.
When Paul wanted to go to the assembly, the disciples did not allow it.
Also some of the asiarchs, who were friends of Paul, sent to him and repeatedly begged him not to venture into the theater.
So some shouted one thing and others another, because there was confusion in the assembly, and most did not know why they had gathered.
And some of the crowd deduced that it was Alexander, since the Jews had pushed him forward. Then Alexander, making a sign of silence with his hand, wanted to make his defense before the assembly.
But when they realized that he was a Jew, a clamor arose from all of them, crying for about two hours: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
Then the secretary, after calming the crowd, said *: Citizens of Ephesus, is there any man who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great Diana and of the image that descended from heaven?
Since these facts are undeniable, you must remain calm and do nothing rashly.
Because you have brought these men who neither steal temples nor blaspheme our goddess.
Thus, if Demetrius and the architects who are with him have a complaint against any, the courts are open and the proconsuls willing; present your accusations against each other.
But if you demand more than this, it will be decided in a legitimate assembly.
Because we are certainly in danger of being accused of sedition in relation to what happened today, since there is no just cause for this, and therefore we will not be able to explain this uproar.
And having said this, he dismissed the assembly.