And once they were safe, we found out that the island was called Malta.
And the inhabitants showed us all kinds of attentions, because because of the falling rain and the cold, they lit a bonfire and welcomed us all.
But when Pablo picked up an armful of firewood and threw it into the fire, a viper ran away from the heat and caught it in his hand.
And the inhabitants, seeing the animal hanging from his hand, said to each other: Without a doubt this man is a murderer, because although he was saved from the sea, Justice has not granted him to live.
Pablo, however, shaking his hand, threw the animal into the fire and suffered no harm.
And they expected it to start to swell, or suddenly drop dead. But after waiting for a long time, and not seeing anything abnormal about him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
And near there were some lands that belonged to the main man of the island, whose name was Publius, who received us and hosted us with all kindness for three days.
And it happened that Publio's father lay in bed, sick with fever and dysentery; And Paul went in to see him, and after praying he laid his hands on him and healed him.
When this happened, the other inhabitants of the island who had illnesses came to him and were cured.
They also honored us with many demonstrations of respect, and when we were to set sail, they supplied us with everything necessary.
After three months, we set sail on an Alexandrian ship that had wintered on the island, and which bore the Twin Brothers as its insignia.
When we got to Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
And leaving from there, we follow the coast until we reach Regio. And the next day a south wind came up, and in two days we reached Puteoli.
There we found some brothers, who invited us to stay with them for seven days. And so we come to Rome.
When the brothers heard of our arrival, they came to meet us at the Celery Forum and The Three Taverns; And when Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage.
When we entered Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the military prefect, but Pablo was allowed to live apart, with the soldier guarding him.
And it came to pass that three days later Paul summoned the chiefs of the Jews, and when they were gathered together he said to them: Brothers, having done nothing against our people or against the traditions of our fathers, from Jerusalem I was delivered prisoner into the hands of the Romans,
When they interrogated me, they wanted to release me, as they found no cause to sentence me to death.
But when the Jews objected, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, but not because I had any charge against my people.
Therefore, for this reason I have asked to see and speak to you, because because of the hope of Israel I wear this chain.
And they said to him, We have neither received letters from Judea about you, nor has any brother come here who has reported or spoken anything bad about you.
But we want to hear from you what you teach, because what we know about this sect is that everywhere it is spoken against.
And having fixed a day for him, they came in large numbers to where he was posing, and from morning until evening he explained to them, faithfully testifying of the kingdom of God, and seeking to persuade them of Jesus, both by the law of Moses and by the prophets.
Some were persuaded by what was said, but others did not believe.
And not agreeing with each other, they started to leave after Paul said one last word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak to your parents through Isaiah the prophet,
saying: GO TO THIS PEOPLE AND SAY: "HEARING YOU WILL HEAR, AND YOU WILL NOT UNDERSTAND; AND SEEING, YOU WILL SEE, AND YOU WILL NOT PERCEIVE;
FOR THE HEART OF THIS PEOPLE HAS BECOME INSENSITIVE, AND WITH DIFFICULTY HEAR WITH THEIR EARS; AND HIS EYES HAVE CLOSED; LESS THAN THEY SEE WITH THE EYES, AND HEAR WITH THE EARS, AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND BE CONVERTED, AND I HEAL THEM ".
Know therefore that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They will hear.
And when he had said this, the Jews left, having great discussion with each other.
And Pablo stayed for two whole years in the room he rented, and he received everyone who went to see him,
preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching everything concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all freedom, without hindrance.
