After passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they reached Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And Paul, according to his custom, went to them and for three rest days he argued with them based on the Scriptures,
explaining and presenting evidence that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying: This Jesus, whom I am announcing to you, is the Christ.
Some of them believed, and joined Paul and Silas, along with a great multitude of God-fearing Greeks and many of the leading women.
But the Jews, full of envy, took some evil men out of the public square, organized a mob and rioted the city; and storming the house of Jason, they tried to get them out to the town.
Not finding them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting: Those who have turned the world upside down have come here too;
and Jason has received them, and they all act against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
And they rioted the crowd and the city authorities who were hearing this.
But after receiving bail from Jason and the others, they released them.
Immediately the brothers sent Paul and Silas to Berea at night, who, when they arrived, went to the synagogue of the Jews.
These were more noble than those of Thessalonica, for they received the word with all solicitude, searching the Scriptures daily, to see if these things were so.
That is why many of them believed, as well as a good number of Greeks, men and women of distinction.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God had been proclaimed by Paul also in Berea, they also went there to stir and stir up the crowds.
Then the brothers immediately sent Paul to go to the sea; but Silas and Timothy stayed there.
Those who led Paul took him to Athens; and after receiving orders that Silas and Timothy join him as soon as possible, they departed.
As Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit burned within him as he contemplated the city full of idols.
So he argued in the synagogue with the Jews and with the fearful gentiles of God, and daily in the square with those who were present.
Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also disputed with him. And some said: What does this babbler mean? And others: He seems to be a preacher of strange divinities — because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
They took it and took it to the Areopagus, saying: Can we know what this new teaching that you proclaim is?
Because we hear you say strange things; therefore we want to know what they mean.
(Well, all the Athenians and foreigners visiting there did not spend their time in anything else but in saying or hearing something new.)
Then Paul standing up in the middle of the Areopagus, said: Athenian men, I perceive that you are very religious in every way.
Because as I passed by and observed the objects of your adoration, I also found an altar with this inscription: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Well, what you adore without knowing, that I announce to you.
The God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made by human hands,
nor is it served by human hands, as if it needed something, since He gives everyone life and breath and all things;
and of one he made all the nations of the world to dwell on all the face of the earth, having determined appointed substitutes and the limits of his habitation,
so that they would look for God, if somehow, feeling, they find him, although he is not far from any of us;
because in Him we live, move and exist, just as some of your own poets have said: "Because we too are his lineage."
Being, therefore, lineage of God, we should not think that the divine nature is similar to gold, silver or stone, sculpted by art and human thought.
Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now declares to all men, everywhere, to repent,
for He has established a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness, by means of a Man whom He has appointed, having presented evidence to all men by raising Him from the dead.
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, but others said, We will hear you again about this.
Then Paul came out from among them.
But some joined him and believed, among whom were Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them.