Having said goodbye to them, we set sail and sailed directly to Cos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Pátara.
Finding a ship making the crossing to Phenicia, we boarded and set sail.
After sighting Cyprus and leaving it to the left, we sailed to Syria and arrived in Tire, because the ship had to unload there.
We stayed seven days there, since we found the disciples. Through the Spirit they told Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.
As the days passed, we all went out with everyone with their wives and children out of town and, kneeling on the beach, we prayed.
We said goodbye to each other and got on the boat, and they returned to their homes.
Having completed the sea crossing from Tire, we arrived at Tolemaida; and having greeted the brothers, we stayed with them one day.
The next day, we left [a] and arrived in Caesarea. We entered the house of Philip the Evangelist, who was one of the seven [b], and stayed with him.
He had four unmarried daughters who prophesied.
And while we were there for several days, a prophet named Agabus descended from Judea.
When he came to us, he took Paul's belt, tied his hands and feet, and said: —This is what the Holy Spirit says: "The man to whom this belt belongs will be bound in this way by the Jews in Jerusalem, and will be delivered in hands of the Gentiles. "
When we heard this, we and those from that place also begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Then Pablo answered: —What are you doing crying and breaking my heart? Because I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
As he was not persuaded, we gave up saying: —May the Lord's will be done.
After these days, having made the preparations, we went up to Jerusalem.
Disciples from Caesarea also came with us, bringing with them a certain Mnason from Cyprus, an ancient disciple, in whose house we would stay.
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us willingly.
The next day, Paul came with us to see James, and all the elders gathered.
After greeting them, he told them one by one all the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
When they heard it, they glorified God. And they said to him: —You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who have believed; and everyone is jealous of the law.
But they have been informed about you, that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to separate from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to our customs.
So what of this? They will surely hear that you have come.
Therefore, do what we tell you. There are four men among us who have taken vows.
Take these men with you, purify yourselves, pay for them to shave their heads, and they will all know that there is nothing that they have been told about you, but that you also keep the law.
But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have written what we had decided [c]: to abstain from what is offered to idols, of blood, of the strangled and of sexual immorality.
Then Paul took those men with him. The next day, after purifying himself with them, he entered the temple to give notice of the day when the purification would be accomplished, when the sacrifice would be offered for each one of them.
When the seven days were about to end, the Jews of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, began to stir up all the people and laid hands on him,
shouting: "Men of Israel! Help! This is the man who everywhere is teaching everyone against our people, the law and this place! And besides this, he has put Greeks inside the temple and has desecrated this place holy".
For before they had seen Trophimus, an Ephesian, in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.
So the whole city was stirred, and the people were in a tumult. They seized Pablo and dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were closed.
While they were trying to kill him, notice came to the tribune of the company that all Jerusalem was in turmoil.
Immediately this took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. And when they saw the tribune and the soldiers, they stopped hitting Paul.
Then the tribune came and seized him, and ordered two chains to be tied to him. He asked who he was and what he had done;
but among the crowd, some shouted one thing and others another. Since he could not understand the truth because of the uproar, he ordered him to be taken to the fortress.
And it happened that when he reached the stands, Paul had to be carried by the soldiers by weight because of the violence of the crowd;
because the crowd of the people came behind shouting: "Kill him!"
As he was about to be put into the fortress, Paul said to the tribune: "May I tell you something?" And he said, "Do you know Greek?"
So, aren't you the Egyptian who provoked a sedition before these days, and led four thousand men out of the assassins into the desert?
Then Pablo said: —In truth, I am a Jew, a citizen of Tarsus of Cilicia, a city not insignificant. And I beg you, let me speak to the people.
As he allowed it, Paul, standing in the stands, waved to the people. Made a deep silence, he began to speak in Hebrew saying: