Then, around that time, King Herod used some of the church to mistreat them.
And he had James, John's brother, killed by the sword.
Seeing that this had pleased the Jews, he proceeded to apprehend Peter as well. Then were the days of Unleavened Bread.
When he took him prisoner, he put him in jail, giving him the custody of four squads of four soldiers each, with the intention of taking him out after Easter.
So Peter was under guard in prison, but the church incessantly prayed to God for him.
When Herod was going to remove him, that same night Pedro was sleeping between two soldiers, tied with two chains, and the guards in front of the door guarded the prison.
And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, and a light shone in the cell. He woke Pedro up by hitting him in the side and said: "Get up soon!" And the chains fell from his hands.
Then the angel said to him, "Gird yourself and tie your sandals." And so he did. Then he said to him, "Wrap yourself in your cloak and follow me."
And having left, I followed him and did not understand that what the angel was doing was reality. Rather, it seemed to him that he saw a vision.
When the first and second guards had passed, they reached the iron gate to the city, which opened for itself. When they had left, they walked down a street, and suddenly the angel turned away from him.
Then Peter, when he came to himself, said: "Now I really understand that the Lord has sent his angel and has delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectations of the Jewish people."
When he realized this, he went to the house of María, the mother of Juan, whose surname was Marcos, where many were gathered and praying.
When Pedro knocked on the front door, a girl named Rode came out to answer.
When she recognized Pedro's voice, out of pure joy she did not open the door, but ran inside and announced that Pedro was at the door.
They said to her: "You are crazy!" But she insisted that it was so. So they said: —It's your angel!
Meanwhile, Pedro persisted in playing; and when they opened they saw him and were amazed.
With his hand, Peter signaled them to be silent and told them how the Lord had taken him out of prison. Then he said, "Let James and the brothers know this." And leaving he went to another place.
When daylight came, there was no small fuss among the soldiers about what would have happened to Pedro.
But Herod, as he sought and found him, after questioning the guards, ordered them to be killed. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there.
Herod was furious with those of Tire and Sidon. But they presented themselves to him by mutual agreement; and having persuaded Blasto, the king's chief waiter, they asked for peace, because their region was supplied by that of the king.
On one appointed day Herod, clothed in his royal robes, sat down at the tribunal and harangued them.
And the people cheered saying: "Voice of a god and not of a man!".
Suddenly an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God. And he died of worms.
But the word of God grew and multiplied.
Barnabas and Saul returned from [to] Jerusalem, having fulfilled their charge, also taking with them John, whose surname was Mark.