Then some who came from Judea taught the brothers: If you are not circumcised according to the rite of Moses, you cannot be saved.
Since no small dissension and strife arose between Paul and Barnabas with them, it was arranged that Paul and Barnabas and a few others of them should go up to Jerusalem, to the apostles, and to the elders, to deal with this matter.
They, therefore, having been sent by the church, passed through Phenicia and Samaria, telling of the conversion of the Gentiles; and they caused great joy to all the brothers.
And when they reached Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and by the apostles and by the elders; and they related all the things that God had done with them.
But some of the sect of the Pharisees, who had believed, rose up, saying: It is necessary to circumcise them and command them to keep the law of Moses.
Then the apostles and the elders met to examine this matter.
And after much discussion, Peter got up and said to them: My brothers, you know that some time ago, God chose that the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel through my mouth and believe.
And God, who knows hearts, bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit just as we do;
and he made no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now, then, why do you tempt God, putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our parents nor we have been able to bear?
Rather, we believe that by the grace of the Lord Jesus we will be saved, just like them.
Then all the crowd fell silent, and they heard Barnabas and Paul recounting how great wonders and signs God had done through them among the Gentiles.
And after they were silent, James answered, saying, "Brothers, listen to me:
Simon has related how God first visited the Gentiles, to take people from them for his name;
and with this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written:
After this I will return and rebuild David's room, which was fallen; and I will repair its ruins and raise it again,
so that the rest of the men may seek the Lord, and also all the Gentiles, on whom my name is invoked, says the Lord, who does all these things.
All his works from the foundation of the world are known to God.
Therefore, I judge that the Gentiles who convert to God should not be disturbed,
but let them be written to abstain from the defilements of idols, and from fornication, and from the strangled and from blood.
Because Moses from ancient times has in each city who preaches to him in the synagogues, where he is read every Sabbath.
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose among them some men and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas, who had the nickname Barsabás, and Silas, main men among the brothers;
and write through them: The apostles, and the elders and the brothers, to the brothers from among the Gentiles who are in Antioch, and in Syria and Cilicia, health.
Because we have heard that some who have come from us, whom we did not give order, have troubled you with words, disturbing your souls, commanding you to be circumcised and keep the law,
It seemed good to us, having reached an agreement, to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have exposed their lives through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So we send Judas and Silas, who will also tell you the same thing by word of mouth.
Because it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, do not impose any burden on you other than these necessary things:
that you abstain from what is sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled and fornication; of such things if you keep yourselves, you will do well. Have a good time.
So, after being sent, they went down to Antioch; and gathering the crowd, they delivered the letter.
Which, when they read it, rejoiced at the comfort received.
And Judas and Silas, as they were also prophets, exhorted and strengthened the brothers with an abundance of words.
And after spending some time there, they were fired in peace by the brothers, to return to the apostles.
But it was good for Silas to stay there.
And Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching the word of the Lord and announcing the gospel with many others.
And after some days, Paul said to Barnabas: Let's go back to visit the brothers in all the cities where we have announced the word of the Lord, to see how they are.
And Barnabas wanted them to take John, his nickname Mark;
but it did not seem to Paul right to take with him the one who had separated from them from Pamphylia and had not gone with them to work.
And there was such disagreement between them that they separated from each other; and Barnabas, taking Mark, sailed to Cyprus.
And Paul, choosing Silas, left entrusted by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
And he walked through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.