But a man named Ananias, with Safira, his wife, sold a property
and he kept part of the price, his wife also knowing; and bringing only a part, he put it at the feet of the apostles.
And Peter said: Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep part of the price of the inheritance?
Holding her back, didn't it fit you? And sold, was it not in your possession? Why did you put this in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God.
Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell and expired. And great fear came over all who heard it.
And the young men got up, wrapped him up, and took him out, and buried him.
And after a space of about three hours, it happened that his wife entered, not knowing what had happened.
Then Peter said to him: Tell me: did you sell the inheritance for as long? And she said: Yes, meanwhile.
And Peter said to him: Why did you agree to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.
And instantly she fell at his feet and expired; and when the young men entered, they found her dead; and they brought her out and buried her with her husband.
And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard these things.
And by the hands of the apostles many miracles and wonders were performed among the people; and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
And of the others, none dared to join them; However, the people praised them greatly.
And those who believed in the Lord increased more, large numbers of both men and women,
So much so that they took the sick to the streets and put them in beds and beds, so that, as Pedro passed, at least his shadow fell on one of them.
And even from the neighboring cities crowds flocked to Jerusalem, bringing sick and tormented by unclean spirits; and they were all healed.
Then the high priest and all who were with him, which was the sect of the Sadducees, arose, became jealous;
and they laid hands on the apostles and put them in public prison.
But an angel of the Lord, opening the prison doors at night, and taking them out, said:
Go, and being in the temple, speak to the people all the words of this life.
And having heard this, they entered the temple in the morning and taught. Meanwhile, the high priest and those who were with him came, summoned the council and all the elders of the children of Israel, and sent them to prison to be brought.
But when the officers arrived and they were not found in jail, they came back and gave notice,
saying: By the way, we have found the prison closed with all security and the guards who were in front of the doors; but when we open, we find no one inside.
And when the high priest and the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests heard these words, they doubted what would come of it.
But when one came, he gave them this news: Behold, the men whom you cast into prison are in the temple and teach the people.
Then he was the captain of the guard with the officers and brought them without violence, because they feared being stoned by the people.
And when they brought them in, they presented them to the council; and the high priest asked them,
saying: Did we not strictly command you not to teach in that name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and you want to cast upon us the blood of that man.
And Peter and the apostles answering, said: It is necessary to obey God before men.
The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
To this, God has exalted with his right hand as Prince and Savior, to give Israel repentance and remission of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and also the Holy Spirit, who has given God to those who obey him.
Hearing this, they were furious and consulted each other to kill them.
Then, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, revered by all the people, stood up on the council and ordered the apostles to be taken away for a moment.
And he said to them, "Men of Israel, watch for yourselves what you are going to do with regard to these men.
Because before these days Theudas rose up, saying that he was someone; This was joined by a number like four hundred men, but he was killed; and all who believed him were scattered and reduced to nothing.
After this, Judas, the Galilean, rose up in the days of the census, and led many people after him. He also perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
And now I say to you: Get away from these men and leave them, because if this advice or this work belongs to men, it will vanish;
but if it is from God, you cannot destroy it; lest you may be found fighting against God.
And they agreed with him; And calling the apostles, after flogging them, they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them.
And they departed from before the council, rejoicing at having been deemed worthy to suffer affront on account of the Name.
And every day, in the temple and in the houses, they did not stop teaching and preaching Jesus Christ.