It happened that at Iconium they entered the synagogue of the Jews together, and spoke in such a way that a large crowd believed, both Jews and Greeks.
But the Jews who did not believe, excited and filled with hatred the spirits of the Gentiles against the brothers.
Yet they stood there a long time, speaking valiantly, trusting in the Lord, who confirmed the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by his hands.
But the crowd of the city was divided, and some were with the Jews and others with the apostles.
And when the Gentiles and the Jews, with their rulers, prepared an attack to mistreat and stone them,
the apostles realized this and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, Derbe, and its surroundings;
and there they continued to proclaim the gospel.
And there was a man in Lystra who was sitting, disabled from the feet, lame from his mother's bosom and who had never walked.
He listened to Paul speak, who, fixing his gaze on him, and seeing that he had faith to be healed,
He said with a loud voice: Get up straight on your feet. And he jumped up and walked.
When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the language of Lycaonia: The gods have become like men and have come down to us.
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercury, because this was the one who was speaking.
And the priest of Jupiter, whose temple was on the outskirts of the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates, and wanted to offer sacrifices together with the crowd.
But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard it, they tore their clothes and threw themselves into the crowd, shouting
and saying: Men, why do you do these things? We are also men of the same nature as you, and we announce the gospel to you so that you may turn from these vain things to a living God, WHO MADE HEAVEN, EARTH, THE SEA, AND EVERYTHING THERE IS IN THEM;
which in past generations allowed all nations to follow their own paths;
and yet he did not fail to bear witness of himself, doing good and giving you heavenly showers and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with sustenance and joy.
And even saying these words, they could hardly prevent the crowds from offering them sacrifice.
But some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowd, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, thinking that he was dead.
But as the disciples surrounded him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day he set out with Barnabas to Derbe.
And after announcing the gospel to that city and making many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch,
strengthening the spirits of the disciples, exhorting them to persevere in the faith, and saying: It is necessary that through many tribulations we enter the kingdom of God.
After elders were appointed to them in each church, having prayed with fasts, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
They passed through Pisidia and arrived at Pamphylia.
And after preaching the word in Perge, they went down to Attalia;
and from there they sailed for Antioch, where they had been entrusted to the grace of God for the work that they had accomplished.
When they arrived and gathered in the church, they reported on all the things that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they stayed a long time with the disciples.