Then Agripa said to Pablo: —You are allowed to speak for yourself. Then Paul extended his hand and began his defense:
"I am blessed to have my defense before you today, O King Agrippa, about all the things of which I am accused by the Jews;
mainly because you know all the customs and questions of the Jews. Therefore, I beg you to listen to me patiently.
"My way of life, from my youth, which I passed from the beginning among those of my nation in Jerusalem, is known to all the Jews.
They knew me from before, if they wanted to testify it, that according to the most rigorous sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee.
And now I am on trial for the hope of the promise that God made to our parents,
promise that our twelve tribes hope to reach by constantly serving day and night. For the same hope I am accused by the Jews, O king!
Why is it deemed incredible among you that God raises the dead?
"Well, in truth, I had thought that I should do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth;
and this I did in Jerusalem. Having received authorization from the chief priests, I imprisoned many of the saints; and when they were killed, I cast my vote against them.
Many times, punishing them in all synagogues, he tried to force them to blaspheme; and extremely enraged against them, he persecuted them even in foreign cities.
"I was engaged in this when I went to Damascus with the authorization and commission of the chief priests [a].
On the way at noon, O king, I saw that from heaven a light, brighter than the sun, shone around me and those who traveled with me.
All of us having fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language: "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the stinger!"
So I said, "Who are you, Lord?" And the Lord said: "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
But get up and stand on your feet, because I have appeared to you for this: to become a minister and witness of the things you have seen of me and of those in which I will appear to you.
I will deliver you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I now send you
to open their eyes, to turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, to receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those sanctified by faith in me. "
"Therefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision.
Rather, first of all to those who were in Damascus, and in Jerusalem, and throughout the land of Judea, and to the Gentiles, I have proclaimed to repent and convert to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
"Because of this, the Jews arrested me in the temple and tried to kill me.
But having obtained help from God, I have stood firm to this day, bearing witness to young and old, without saying anything foreign to the things that the prophets and Moses said were to happen:
that the Christ was to suffer, and that being the first of the resurrection of the dead, he was to announce light to the people and to the Gentiles.
While he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said to him with a loud voice: "You are crazy, Pablo!" The many letters drive you crazy!
But Pablo said: "I am not crazy, most excellent Festus, but I speak words of truth and sanity."
For the king, before whom I also speak confidently, understands these things. Because I am convinced that none of this is hidden from you, because this has not happened in some corner.
Do you believe, O king Agrippa, the prophets? I know what you think!
Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You almost persuaded me to be a Christian!"
And Paul said: —God wishes that, for little or for much, not only you but also all those who listen to me today were made like me, except for these chains!
Then [b] the king, the procurator, Berenice, and those who sat with them arose.
And after retiring apart, they would talk to each other saying: —This man does not do anything worthy of death or imprisonment.
And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could be released if he had not appealed to Caesar."