Then there were in the church that was in Antioch prophets and teachers: Barnabas; and Simón, the one named Niger and Lucio cireneo; and Manaen, who had been raised with Herod, the Tetrarch, and Saul.
So these ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said: Set apart Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
Then, having fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them and dismissed them.
And they, thus sent by the Holy Ghost, went down to Seleucia, and from there sailed to Cyprus.
And after arriving in Salamis, they announced the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews; and they also had Juan as an assistant.
And having crossed the whole island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, named Barjesus,
that he was with the proconsul Sergio Paulo, a prudent man. Calling Barnabas and Saul, he wanted to hear the word of God.
But Elymas, the enchanter (for that is how his name is interpreted) resisted them, trying to separate the proconsul from the faith.
Then Saul, who is also Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his eyes on him,
He said to him: Oh, full of all deceit and all evil, son of the devil, enemy of all justice, will you not cease to upset the straight ways of the Lord?
Now therefore, behold, the hand of the Lord is against you, and you will be blind and will not see the sun for some time. And immediately darkness and darkness fell upon him; And walking around, he looked for someone to lead him by the hand.
Then the proconsul, seeing what had happened, believed, marveled at the doctrine of the Lord.
And having set sail from Paphos, Paul and his companions arrived at Perge from Pamphylia; then John, separating himself from them, returned to Jerusalem.
And they, passing from Perge, came to Antioch from Pisidia, and entered the synagogue on a Sabbath, and sat down.
And after reading the law and the prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent to tell them: My brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, speak.
Then Paul got up and, having made a sign of silence with his hand, said: Men of Israel and those who fear God, hear:
The God of this people of Israel chose our parents and exalted the people, as they were foreigners in the land of Egypt, and with an upraised arm he brought them out of it.
And for a time like forty years he endured his customs in the desert;
Having destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as their inheritance.
And then, for about four hundred and fifty years, he gave judges to the prophet Samuel.
And then they asked for a king, and God gave Saul the son of Cis, a man from the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
And after he had taken him away, he raised up David for king, to whom he also bore witness, saying, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all that I will.
From his offspring, God, according to the promise, raised Jesus as Savior to Israel.
Before his coming, John preached the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
But when Juan finished his career, he said: Who do you think I am? I am not the; but behold, there comes after me one whose footwear I am not worthy to untie.
Brothers, sons of the lineage of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this salvation is sent to you.
Because those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, not recognizing Jesus or the voices of the prophets that are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him.
And finding no cause of death in him, they asked Pilate to kill him.
And having fulfilled all the things that were written of him, they took him down from the tree and put him in the grave.
But God raised him from the dead.
And those who had gone up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem saw him for many days, who are now his witnesses to the people.
And we also announce to you the gospel of that promise that was made to parents,
which God has fulfilled to us, their children, resurrecting Jesus, as it is also written in the second psalm: You are my son; I have begotten you today.
And regarding the fact that he raised him from the dead never to return to corruption, he said it this way: I will give you David's faithful mercies.
That is why it also says elsewhere: You will not allow your Saint to see corruption.
For indeed David, having served his own generation according to the will of God, slept, and was reunited with his parents and saw corruption.
But the one whom God raised up saw no corruption.
Know this, therefore, my brethren, that through him the remission of sins is announced to you,
and of all that by the law of Moses you could not be justified, in him everyone who believes is justified.
Take care, therefore, that what is said in the prophets does not come upon you:
Look, you scornful ones, be amazed and perish; Because I do a work in your days, a work that you will not believe if someone tells you.
And when they came out of the synagogue of the Jews, the Gentiles begged them to speak to them about the following Sabbath day.
And with the congregation dismissed, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to persevere in the grace of God.
And the next Sabbath day, most of the city gathered to hear the word of God.
But the Jews, seeing the crowd, became jealous and refuted what Paul said, contradicting and blaspheming.
Then Paul and Barnabas boldly said: To you indeed it was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first; but since you reject it and do not judge yourselves worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
For thus the Lord has commanded us, saying: I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may be salvation to the ends of the earth.
And the Gentiles, hearing this, rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord, and all who were ordained for eternal life believed.
And the word of the Lord spread throughout that province.
But the Jews instigated pious and distinguished women, and the principals of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their limits.
So they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and went to Iconium.
And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.