There were then in the church that was in Antioch some prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simon called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, who had been raised with the tetrarch Herod, and Saul.
As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, "Set aside Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."
Then, having fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them and dismissed them.
Therefore, being sent by the Holy Spirit, they descended to Seleucia, and from there sailed to Cyprus.
After arriving in Salamis, they announced the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had Juan as an assistant.
Having traversed the entire island to Paphos, they found a magician, a false Jewish prophet, named Barjesus.
He was with the proconsul Sergio Paulo, a prudent man. The latter, sending for Barnabas and Saul, wanted to hear the word of God.
But the magician Elymas (since that is how his name is translated) resisted them, trying to separate the proconsul from the faith.
Then Saul, who is also Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixed his eyes on him.
and said: —Oh, full of all deceit and all malice, son of the devil, enemy of all justice! Will you not cease to pervert the Lord's righteous ways?
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is against you! You will be blind for a time without seeing the sun. Suddenly mist and darkness fell on him, and groping his way, he looked for someone to lead him by the hand.
Then, seeing what had happened, the proconsul believed, amazed at the doctrine of the Lord.
Having set sail from Paphos, Paul and his companions arrived at Perge from Pamphylia; but John separated from them and returned to Jerusalem.
Passing from Perge, they arrived in Antioch from Pisidia. And on the Sabbath day, having entered the synagogue, they sat down.
After reading the Law and the Prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent to tell them: —Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, speak.
Then Paul got up, and gesturing with his hand, said: "Men of Israel and those who fear God, listen."
The God of this people of Israel chose our parents. He exalted the people, as they were foreigners in the land of Egypt, and with an upraised arm he led them out.
For a time of about forty years he endured them [a] in the desert.
Then he destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, and made them inherit the land from them;
about four hundred and fifty years. "After that [b], he gave judges to the prophet Samuel.
And from then on they asked for a king, and God gave them forty years to Saul son of Quis, a man from the tribe of Benjamin [c].
"After removing it, he raised David as king, to whom he bore witness saying," I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart [d], who will do all my will. "
From David's seed, according to the promise, God brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus.
Before witnessing his coming, John preached the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Then, when Juan finished his career, he would say: "Who did they think I am? I am not. Rather, here comes after me one of whom I am not worthy to untie the footwear from his feet."
"Brothers, children of the lineage of Abraham, and those among you who fear God: The message of this salvation has been sent to us [f].
Because the inhabitants of Jerusalem and their rulers, by not recognizing Jesus or paying attention to the words of the prophets that are read every Saturday, fulfilled them by condemning him.
Finding no cause of death in him, they asked Pilate to kill him.
And since they had fulfilled all the things written about him, they took him down from the tree and put him in the grave.
But God raised him from the dead.
And he appeared for many days to those who had gone up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.
"We also announce to you the good news that the promise that was made to parents,
this has been fulfilled by God for us his children [g], when he resurrected Jesus; as it is also written in the second Psalm: You are my son; I have begotten you today.
"And about the fact that he raised him from the dead so as not to return to corruption, he has thus said: I will give you the holy and faithful blessings promised to David [i].
That is why it also says elsewhere: You will not allow your Saint to see corruption.
Because, having served the will of God in his own generation, David died, was reunited with his parents, and saw corruption.
Instead, the one whom God raised did not see corruption.
"Therefore, brothers, let it be known to you that through him the forgiveness of sins is announced to you.
And of all that by the law of Moses could not be justified, in him everyone who believes is justified.
Take care, then, that what is said in the Prophets does not come to pass:
Look scoffers, be amazed and perish. Because I do a great work in their days: a work that they will never believe, even if someone tells them.
As they were leaving, they begged them to speak to them on the following Saturday.
Then once the congregation was dismissed, many of the Jews and the pious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who spoke to them and persuaded them to persevere faithful in the grace of God.
The following Saturday, almost the entire city gathered to hear the word of God.
And when the Jews saw the crowds they were filled with jealousy, and blaspheming they contradicted what Paul said.
Then Paul and Barnabas, speaking bravely, said: —It was necessary that you first speak the word of God; but since they have rejected it and do not consider themselves worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
For thus the Lord has commanded us: I have made the Gentiles light for you, that you may be unto the ends of the earth for salvation.
Hearing this, the Gentiles rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord, and those who were appointed for eternal life believed.
And the word of the Lord spread throughout the region.
But the Jews instigated some pious and distinguished women and the principals of the city, and provoked a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and threw them out of their territories.
Then they shook the dust off their feet against them, and went to Iconium.
And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.