On the day of Pentecost [a] they were all gathered in one place.
And suddenly a noise came from heaven, as if a violent wind was blowing, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
Then tongues like fire appeared, scattered among them, and settled on each of them.
They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in different languages, as the Spirit gave them to speak.
There were Jews in Jerusalem, godly men from all the nations under heaven.
When this roar occurred, the crowd gathered; and they were confused because each one heard them speak in their own language.
They were astonished and amazed, and they said: —Look, aren't all these who speak Galileans?
How, then, do we each hear in our native language?
Parthians, Medes, Elamites; inhabitants of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the Libyan regions beyond Cyrene; Roman outsiders, both Jews and proselytes;
Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speak in our own languages ​​the great deeds of God.
Everyone was stunned and perplexed, saying to each other, "What does this mean?"
But others, mocking, said: —They are full of new wine.
Then Peter stood with the eleven, raised his voice, and declared to them, "Men of Judea and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and heed my words.
Because these are not drunk, as they think, because it is only like nine in the morning of the day.
Rather, this is what was said through the prophet Joel:
It will happen in the last days, says God, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Their sons and daughters will prophesy, their young men will see visions, and their old men will dream dreams.
Verily I will pour out my Spirit upon my servants and my handmaidens, and they shall prophesy.
I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth below: blood, fire, and smoke vapor.
The sun will turn into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the day of the Lord comes, great and glorious.
And it will happen that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved [c].
Hear these words, men of Israel: Jesus of Nazareth was a man credited by God before you with mighty deeds, wonders, and signs that God did through him among you, as you yourselves know.
This one, who was delivered by the predetermined advice and the previous knowledge of God, you killed [d] nailing him in a cross by wicked hands.
God resurrected him, having unleashed the pains of death; since it was impossible for him to be detained under his rule.
Because David says of him: I always saw the Lord before me, because he is on my right, so that I am not shaken.
Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; and even my body will rest in hope.
Because you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your Saint to see corruption.
You have made me know the ways of life and you will fill me with joy with your presence [e].
"Brothers, I can confidently tell you that our father David died and was buried, and his grave is with us to this day.
Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath that one of his descendants would sit on his throne [f],
and seeing it beforehand, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ: that he was not abandoned in Hades, nor did his body see corruption [g].
This Jesus was raised by God, of which we are all witnesses!
"So, exalted by the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this which you see and hear.
Because David did not ascend to heaven, but he himself says: The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand,
until I make your enemies your footstool [h].
So let the whole house of Israel know with certainty that this same Jesus whom you crucified, God has made Lord and Christ.
When they heard this, they were heartbroken and said to Peter and the other apostles, "Brothers, what shall we do?"
Peter said to them, "Repent and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for [i] forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Because the promise is for you, for your children and for all those who are far away, for all the Lord our God calls.
And with many other words he testified and exhorted them saying: —Be saved from this wicked generation!
So those who received his word were baptized, and about three thousand people were added on that day.
And they persevered in the apostles' doctrine, in fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in prayers.
Then fear fell upon every person, for many miracles and signs were performed through the apostles.
And everyone who believed would get together and have everything in common.
They sold their possessions and goods, and distributed them to everyone, each according to need.
They continued unanimously in the temple day after day, and breaking the bread house by house, they shared the food with joy and with simplicity of heart,
praising God and having the favor of all the people. And the Lord added daily to their number those who were to be saved.