Peter and John would go up to the temple at prayer time, three in the afternoon.
And a certain man was brought who was lame from his mother's womb. Every day they put him at the door of the temple called Hermosa, to ask for alms from those who entered the temple.
When he saw Peter and John coming to the temple, he begged them to receive alms.
Then Pedro, together with Juan, noticed him and said: "Look at us."
He paid attention to them, because he expected to receive something from them.
But Pedro said to him: "I have neither silver nor gold, but what I have I give you." In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, get up and walk!
He took him by the right hand and lifted him up. His feet and ankles were immediately affirmed,
and with a jump he stood up and started walking. And he entered the temple with them, walking, jumping and praising God.
All the people saw him walking and praising God.
They recognized that he was the same one who sat begging for alms at the Beautiful door of the temple, and they were filled with awe and admiration for what had happened to him.
As he took hold of Peter and John, all the people, stunned, rushed to them on the porch called Solomon's.
When Peter saw this, he replied to the people: "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this?" Why do they look at us as if with our power or piety we had made this man walk?
The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers [a] has glorified his Servant Jesus, whom you delivered and denied before Pilate, even though he had resolved to release him.
But you denied the Holy and Righteous; they asked to be given a murderous man,
and they killed the Author of life, whom God has raised from the dead. Of this we are witnesses.
"And the name of Jesus made strong, by faith in his name, this man that you see and know. And the faith that is awakened by Jesus has given him this complete healing in the presence of all of you.
Now, brothers, I know that they did it out of ignorance, as did their rulers.
But God thus fulfilled what he had announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer [b].
"Therefore repent and be converted so that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshment may come from the presence of the Lord
and that he send the Christ, Jesus, who was previously appointed to them.
He, moreover, was to receive heaven until the times of the restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient times.
For indeed Moses said, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. They will listen to him in everything he speaks to them.
And it will happen that anyone who does not listen to that prophet will be uprooted from the people [c].
And all the prophets, from Samuel onward, all who spoke, also announced these days.
"You are the children of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with their parents, saying to Abraham: In your descendants all the families of the earth will be blessed [d].
And after raising his Servant, God sent him first to you, to bless you as each of you turns from his wickedness.