And at that same time King Herod used some of the church to mistreat them.
And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
And seeing that this had pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter as well. Then were the days of unleavened bread.
And having taken him prisoner, he put him in jail, giving him four groups of four soldiers each, to guard him, wanting to show him to the people after Easter.
So Peter was kept in prison, but the church prayed to God unceasingly for him.
And when Herod was going to take him out, that same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and the guards in front of the door guarded the prison.
And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, and a light shone in prison; And touching Peter on the side, he woke him up, saying: Get up quickly. And the chains fell from his hands.
And the angel said to him: Gird yourself and tie your sandals. And he did so. And he said to him: Wrap yourself in your cloak and follow me.
And leaving, I followed him, not knowing if what the angel was doing was true; rather he thought he saw a vision.
And having passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate that opened onto the city, which opened to itself; and having gone out, they passed a street, and immediately the angel turned away from him.
Then Peter, returning to himself, said: Now I truly understand that the Lord has sent his angel and has delivered me from Herod's hand and from everything that the Jewish people expected.
And having considered this, he arrived at the house of Mary, the mother of John, the one whose nickname was Mark, where many were gathered together praying.
And when Pedro knocked on the patio door, a girl named Rode came out to listen,
The one who, when she recognized Peter's voice, joyfully did not open the door, but ran inside, gave the news that Peter was at the door.
And they said to her: You are crazy! But she claimed that it was so. So they said: It's his angel!
But Pedro persisted in calling; and when they opened and saw him, they were stunned.
But he, signaling to them to be silent, told them how the Lord had taken him out of prison. And he said: Let James and the brothers know this. And he went out, and went to another place.
After daylight, there was no little fuss among the soldiers about what had become of Pedro.
And Herod, having searched for him without finding him, after questioning the guards, ordered them to be executed. Then, descending from Judea to Caesarea, he stayed there.
And Herod was angry with those of Tire and those of Sidon; but they, by mutual agreement, came to him, and having bribed Blasto, who was the king's waiter, they asked for peace, because their lands were supplied by those of the king.
And one appointed day Herod, dressed in royal clothing, sat down at the tribunal and harangued them.
And the people cheered: Voice of a god, and not of man.
And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God; and he had eaten out of worms.
And the word of the Lord grew and multiplied.
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having fulfilled their service, also taking with them John, whose surname was Mark.