There was in Caesarea a certain man named Cornelius, who was a centurion of the company called the Italian.
He was godly and God fearing, along with his entire house. He did many works of mercy for the people and prayed to God constantly.
At about three in the afternoon, he saw clearly in vision an angel of God who came towards him and said: —Cornelius.
With his eyes on the angel and frightened, he said: "What is it, Lord?" And he said to him: —Your prayers and your works of mercy have risen as a reminder in the presence of God.
Now, then, send men to Joppa and call a certain Simon, whose nickname is Peter.
He is staying with a certain Simon, a tanner, who has his house by the sea.
As soon as the angel talking to him left, Cornelius called two of his servants and a godly soldier from among his assistants,
and after having told them all this, he sent them to Joppa.
The next day, while they were traveling on the road and arrived near the city, Pedro went up to the roof to pray, about noon.
He felt very hungry and wanted to eat; but while the food was being prepared, an ecstasy came over him.
He saw the open sky and an object descending like a great canvas, lowered at its four ends to the ground.
On the canvas were all kinds of quadrupeds and reptiles from the earth and birds from the sky.
And a voice came to him: —Get up, Pedro; kill and eat.
Then Peter said, "No way, Lord! Because I have never eaten anything common or unclean.
The voice returned to him a second time: "What God has purified, do not have in common."
This happened three times, and suddenly the object was raised to heaven.
While Peter was perplexed within himself about what the vision he had seen might be, behold, the men sent by Cornelius, having asked about Simon's house, came to the door.
So they called and asked if a Simon by the nickname Peter was staying there.
As Peter was still meditating on the vision, the Spirit told him: "Behold, three men are looking for you.
So get up and go down. Do not hesitate to go with them, because I have sent them. "
Then Peter came down to meet the men [a] and said: "Here I am." I am the one who seek. What is the cause for which they have come?
They said: —Cornelius, a centurion, a just and God-fearing man, as the whole nation of the Jews testifies well, has been instructed in a revelation by a holy angel, to make you come to his house and hear your words .
Then he brought them in and housed them. The next day, he got up and went with them. Some of Joppa's brothers also accompanied him.
The next day, they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, having invited his relatives and his closest friends.
As Peter was about to enter, Cornelius went out to meet him, fell at his feet and worshiped him.
But Peter raised him up saying, "Get up!" I myself am also a man.
While talking to him, he went inside and found that many had gathered.
And he said to them, "You know how improper it is for a Jewish man to get together or approach a foreigner, but God has shown me not to call any man common or unclean."
Therefore, when called, I came without objection. So I ask: For what reason did they send for me?
Then Cornelius said: —About four days ago at this time, around three in the afternoon, I was praying [b] at my house. And behold, a man in shining robes stood before me
and he said: "Cornelius, your prayer has been answered, and your works of mercy have been remembered in the presence of God.
Therefore, send Joppa and summon Simon, whose surname is Peter. He is staying at Simon the tanner's house, by the sea. "
So, I immediately sent to you; and you have done well to come. Now, then, we are all here in the presence of God, to hear everything that the Lord [c] has commanded you.
Then Peter, opening his mouth, said: —Really, I realize that God does not make a distinction of persons,
but in every nation the one who fears him and works justice is accepted.
God has sent a message to the children of Israel, announcing the gospel of peace through Jesus Christ. He is the Lord of all.
You know the message that has been spread throughout Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism that John preached.
I am talking about Jesus of Nazareth, and how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil, because God was with him.
And we are witnesses to all the things that he did, both in the Judea region and in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a tree,
but God raised him up on the third day and made him appear,
not to all the people, but to the witnesses that God had chosen beforehand, to us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
He has commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one God has made as Judge of the living and the dead.
All the prophets bear witness to him, and that everyone who believes in him will receive forgiveness of sins by his name.
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.
And the believers of the circumcision who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was also poured out on the Gentiles;
for they heard them speak in tongues and glorify God.
Then Peter answered: —Can anyone deny water, so that those who have received the Holy Spirit, like us, are not baptized?
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they begged him to stay for a few days.