And some came down from Judea and taught the brothers: If you are not circumcised according to the rite of Moses, you cannot be saved.
As Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brothers determined that Paul and Barnabas, and some others of them, should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders to deal with this matter.
So, being sent by the church, they passed through Phenicia and Samaria, recounting in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and caused great joy to all the brothers.
When they arrived in Jerusalem, they were greeted by the church, the apostles, and the elders, and reported everything that God had done with them.
But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed, rose up saying: It is necessary to circumcise them and command them to keep the law of Moses.
Then the apostles and the elders met to consider this matter.
And after much debate, Peter got up and said to them: Brothers, you know that in the first days God chose from among you that through my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe.
And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He also gave it to us;
and no distinction was made between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now, why do you tempt God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our parents nor we have been able to carry?
Rather we believe that we are saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus, in the same way that they also are.
The entire crowd was silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul, who related the signs and wonders that God had done among the Gentiles through them.
When they finished speaking, Jacobo responded, saying: Listen to me, brothers.
Simon has related how God at first saw fit to take from among the Gentiles a people for his name.
And with this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written:
AFTER THIS I WILL RETURN, AND I WILL REBUILD THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID THAT HAS FALLEN. AND I WILL REBUILD ITS RUINS, AND I WILL RAISE IT AGAIN,
FOR THE REST OF MEN TO SEEK THE LORD, AND ALL THE GENTILES WHO ARE CALLED BY MY NAME,
SAYS THE LORD, WHO MAKES ALL THIS KNOWN FROM ANCIENT TIMES.
Therefore, I think that we do not disturb those who are converted to God from among the Gentiles,
but write to them to abstain from things contaminated by idols, from fornication, from the strangled and from blood.
Because Moses from ancient generations has in each city those who preach it, because every Sabbath is read in the synagogues.
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose among them some men to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas, called Barsabas, and Silas, prominent men among the brothers,
And they sent this letter with them: The apostles, and the brothers who are elders, to the brothers in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia who are from the Gentiles, greetings.
Since we have heard that some of us, whom we do not authorize, have troubled you with their words, disturbing your souls,
it seemed good to us, having reached a common agreement, to choose some men to send you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who will also verbally inform you of the same things.
Because it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us not to impose a greater burden on you than these essential things:
that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from fornication. If you keep yourselves from such things, you will do well. Have a good time.
So they, after being fired, went down to Antioch; and assembling the congregation, they delivered the letter;
and when they read it, they rejoiced at the comfort it imparted to them.
Being Judas and Silas also prophets, they exhorted and comforted the brothers with a long message.
And after spending some time there, they were fired in peace by the brothers to return to those who had sent them.
But it seemed good to Silas to stay there.
But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching with many others, the word of the Lord.
After some days Paul said to Barnabas: Let's go back and visit the brothers in all the cities where we have proclaimed the word of the Lord, to see how they are doing.
Barnabas also wanted to take with them Juan, called Marcos,
But Paul considered that they should not take with them who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not accompanied them in the work.
There was such a disagreement that they separated from each other, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed for Cyprus.
But Paul chose Silas and left, being entrusted by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
And he traveled through Syria and Cilicia confirming the churches.