Then he came to Derbe and Lystra; and behold, there was a certain disciple named Timothy, the son of a believing Jewish woman, but of a Greek father.
And the brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium bore good witness of him.
Paul wanted him to go with him; And taking him, he circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, because they all knew that his father was Greek.
And when they passed through the cities, they gave them the decrees that had been determined by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem, to observe them.
So the churches were confirmed in the faith and increased in number every day.
And crossing Phrygia and the province of Galatia, the Holy Spirit was forbidden to speak the word in Asia.
And when they got to Misia, they tried to go to Bithynia; but the Spirit did not allow it.
Then passing by Misia, they descended to Troas.
And at night Paul was shown a vision: A Macedonian man was standing, begging him and saying: Come to Macedonia and help us.
And after he saw the vision, we immediately tried to leave for Macedonia, assuming that God was calling us to announce the gospel to them.
Sailing, therefore, from Troas, we sailed directly to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis;
and from there to Philippi, which is the main city of that part of Macedonia and a colony; and we were in that city for a few days.
And one Sabbath we went outside the door, by the river, where we used to pray; and sitting down we spoke to the women who had gathered.
Then a woman named Lydia, who was selling purple, from the city of Thyatira, and who worshiped God, was listening; and the Lord opened her heart to be attentive to what Paul said.
And when she was baptized, along with her family, she begged us, saying: If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay; and persuaded us.
And it came to pass that, as we went to the place of prayer, a girl met us who had a spirit of divination, who gave her masters great gain, by guessing.
She, following Paul and us, cried out, saying: These men are servants of the Most High God, who announce to you the way of salvation!
And she did this for many days, until, displeasing Paul, he turned and said to the spirit: I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her! And it came out at that same hour.
But seeing their masters that the hope of their gain had gone out, they seized Pablo and Silas, and took them to the forum, before the authorities;
they presented them to the magistrates and said: These men, being Jews, stir up our city
and they teach customs that it is not lawful for us to receive or do, since we are Romans.
Then the people came together against them; and the magistrates, tearing their clothes, ordered them to flog with rods.
And after they had been wounded with many lashes, they were thrown into prison, sending the jailer to watch over them diligently.
The one who, upon receiving this command, put them in the inner dungeon and secured their feet in the stocks.
But at midnight, praying Paul and Silas, they sang hymns to God; and those who were imprisoned heard them.
Then suddenly a great earthquake struck, so that the foundations of the prison shook; and instantly all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were released.
And when the jailer woke up and saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and wanted to kill himself, thinking that the prisoners had fled.
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying: Do no harm to yourself, because we are all here.
Then, asking for light, he entered hastily, and trembling, fell down at the feet of Paul and Silas;
and he brought them out and said to them: Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
And they said: Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your house.
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
He, taking them at that same hour of the night, washed their wounds from the lashes; and he and all his were baptized immediately.
And taking them home, he set the table for them; and he rejoiced that with all his house he had believed in God.
And when it was day, the magistrates sent bailiffs to say: Let those men go.
And the jailer made these words known to Paul: The magistrates have sent to tell you to be released; so now go out and go in peace.
But Paul said to them: After whipping us publicly without being condemned, being Roman citizens, they threw us in jail, and now they release us covertly? No, not in any way, but come themselves to get us out.
And the bailiffs made the magistrates know these words, those who were afraid to hear that they were Romans.
And coming, they begged them; And taking them out, they asked them to leave the city.
Then, after leaving prison, they entered Lidia's house; and having seen the brothers, they comforted them and left.