Once safe, we found out later that the island was called Malta.
The natives treated us with no little kindness, as they welcomed us all and lit a fire due to the falling rain and the cold.
Then, when Pablo collected a quantity of dry branches and threw them into the fire, a viper that fled from the heat caught him in the hand.
When the natives saw the serpent hanging from their hand, they said to each other: "Surely this man is a murderer, whom, although he has been saved from the sea, justice will not let him live!"
Then he shook the serpent in the fire, but suffered no evil.
Meanwhile, they expected him to start swelling or drop dead suddenly. But after spending a lot of time waiting and seeing that nothing was wrong with him, they changed their minds and said he was a god.
In those places were the properties of the main man of the island, who was called Publius. He received and welcomed us in a friendly way for three days.
Publio's father happened to be in bed, sick with fever and dysentery. Paul entered where he was, and after praying, he laid his hands on him and healed him.
After this happened, the rest of the island who had illnesses also came to him and were healed.
They also honored us with many gifts, and before we set sail, they provided us with the necessary things.
So, after three months, we set sail in an Alexandrian ship that had wintered on the island and had the gods of Darkness as its insignia [a].
Having arrived in Syracuse, we were there for three days.
From there, costing around, we went to Regio; and a day later the south wind rose, and we reached the second day at Puteoli.
There we found brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And in this way we arrive in Rome.
Hearing from us, the brothers came to the Plaza de Apio and the Tres Tabernas to welcome us. Seeing them, Paul thanked God and took heart.
When we arrived in Rome [b], Paul was allowed to live apart, with a soldier guarding him.
It happened that, three days later, Paul summoned those who were the foremost of the Jews, and once assembled he said to them: "Brothers, without my having done anything against the people or against the customs of the fathers, from Jerusalem I have been given prisoner in the hands of the Romans.
Having examined me, they wanted to release me because there was no cause of death in me.
But because the Jews were opposed, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, not because I have to accuse my nation.
So for this reason I have called you to see and speak to you, because for the hope of Israel I am girded with this chain.
Then they said, "We have not received letters from Judea concerning you, and none of the brothers who have come has denounced or spoken evil about you."
But we want to hear from you what you think, because we are known about this sect, which is spoken against it everywhere.
Having set a day for him, large numbers came to him where he was staying. From morning until sunset, he exposed and bore witness to the kingdom of God, persuading them about Jesus, starting from the Law of Moses and the Prophets.
Some were convinced by what he said, but others did not believe.
As they did not agree with each other, they were leaving when Paul said one last word: —Well the Holy Spirit spoke through the prophet Isaiah to his parents, saying:
Go to this town and tell them: "By hearing they will hear and will never understand; and seeing they will see and never perceive."
Because the heart of this town has become callous, and with their ears they heard awkwardly. They have closed their eyes so that they do not see with the eyes, nor hear with the ears, nor understand with the heart, nor are they converted. And I will heal them [c].
Know, then, that this salvation of God is announced to the Gentiles, and they will hear.
[d],
Pablo stayed two whole years in a house that he rented. To all who came to him, he received them there,
preaching the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ, freely and without hindrance.