But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a property,
and he kept part of the price, his wife also knowing it; and bringing the other part, he placed it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said: Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep part of the price of the land?
While it was unsold, didn't it belong to you? And after it was sold, wasn't it under your power? Why did you conceive this matter in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.
When Ananias heard these words, he fell and expired; and great fear came upon all who knew it.
And the young men got up and covered him, and taking him out, they buried him.
After a lapse of about three hours his wife entered, not knowing what had happened.
And Pedro asked him: Tell me, did you sell the land for as long? And she said: Yes, that was the price.
Then Peter said to him, Why did you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will also take you out.
Instantly she fell at his feet, and expired. When the young men entered, they found her dead, and they took her out and buried her with her husband.
And great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all who knew these things.
By the apostles' hand many signs and wonders were performed among the people; and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
But none of the others dared to join them; however, the people held them in high esteem.
And more and more believers in the Lord, multitudes of men and women, constantly added to their number,
so much so that the sick were still taken out into the streets and laid out on beds and stretchers, so that when Pedro passed, even his shadow would fall on one of them.
Also the people of the cities around Jerusalem came bringing sick and tormented by unclean spirits, and all were healed.
But the high priest, and all who were with him (that is, the sect of the Sadducees), arose with zeal,
and they laid hold of the apostles and put them in a public prison.
But an angel of the Lord, at night, opened the doors of the prison, and taking them out, said:
Go, and stand in the temple, speak to the people the whole message of this Life.
Having heard this, they entered the temple at dawn and taught. When the high priest and those with him arrived, they called the council, that is, the entire senate of the children of Israel, and sent orders to prison to bring them.
But the marshals who went did not find them in prison; So they came back and reported,
saying: We found the prison closed with all security and the guards standing at the doors; but when we open, we find no one inside.
When they heard these words, the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests were very puzzled by them, wondering what would end this.
But someone showed up and informed them: Look, the men you put in jail are in the temple teaching the people.
Then the captain went with the bailiffs and brought them without violence (because they feared the people, lest they be stoned).
When they brought them in, they put them before the council, and the high priest questioned them,
saying: We gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name, and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teachings, and you want to bring upon us the blood of this man.
But Peter and the apostles answering, said: We must obey God before men.
The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you had killed by hanging him on a cross.
He exalted this God at his right hand as Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
And we are witnesses of these things; and also the Holy Spirit, which God has given to those who obey him.
When they heard this, they were deeply offended and wanted to kill them.
But a certain Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, respected by all the people, stood up at the council and ordered that the men be taken out for a moment.
And he said to them: Men of Israel, be careful what you are going to do with these men.
Because some time ago Theudas rose up pretending to be someone; and a group of about four hundred men joined him. And he was killed, and all who followed him were scattered and reduced to nothing.
After him Judas of Galilee arose in the days of the census, and led many people after him; he also perished, and all who followed him scattered.
Therefore, in this case I tell you: have nothing to do with these men and leave them alone, because if this plan or action belongs to men, it will perish;
but if it is from God, you cannot destroy them; lest you find yourselves fighting against God.
They accepted his advice, and after calling the apostles, they flogged them and ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus and released them.
They, therefore, left the council's presence, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer affront to his Name.
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not stop teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ.
