In the first account [a] I wrote, O Theophilus, about all the things that Jesus began to do and to teach,
until the day he was received upstairs, after he had given commandments by the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.
These were also presented alive, after having suffered, with much convincing evidence. For forty days he was visible to them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God.
And being together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the fulfillment of the Father's promise, "of which they heard me speak;
because John, indeed, baptized in water [b], but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit after not many days. "
Therefore those who were gathered asked him, saying, "Lord, will you restore the kingdom to Israel at this time?"
He answered them: —You do not have to know neither the times nor the occasions that the Father arranged by his own authority.
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea, in Samaria and to the ends of the earth.
After saying this, and while they saw him, he was elevated; and a cloud received him concealing him from his eyes.
And since they were staring at the sky while he was leaving, behold, two men dressed in white appeared next to them,
And they said to them, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking at the sky?" This Jesus, who was taken from you up to heaven, will come in the same way as you have seen him go to heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, about a kilometer [c] way.
And when they entered, they went up to the upper room where Pedro, Juan, Jacobo and Andrés, Felipe and Tomás, Bartolomé and Mateo, Jacobo son of Alfeo and Simón el Zelote, and Judas son of Jacobo were staying.
All of these persevered unanimously in prayer together with the women and with Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brothers.
In those days Peter arose in the midst of the brothers, who were about one hundred and twenty people gathered together, and said:
"Brethren, it was necessary that the Scriptures [d] be fulfilled, in which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand through David about Judas, who was the guide of those who arrested Jesus;
because he was counted on us and had a part in this ministry. "
(This man, therefore, acquired a field with the payment of his iniquity, and falling headlong, burst open in the middle, and all his entrails spilled.
And this became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, in such a way that that field was called in their language Acéldama, which means Field of Blood) [e].
"For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let his dwelling be made void, and no one dwells in it [f]. And another take his office [g].
Therefore, of these men who have been with us all the time that the Lord Jesus came and went among us,
starting from the baptism of John until the day he was taken from us and received above, one must be with us a witness to his resurrection. "
They proposed two: José, who was called Barsabás, whose nickname was Justo; and Matías.
Then praying they said: "You, Lord, who know everyone's heart, show these two which you have chosen
to take the place of this ministry and apostolate from which Judas went astray to go to his own place. "
They cast lots for them and luck fell on Matthias, who was numbered with the eleven apostles.