While they were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees arrived,
resentful that they taught the people and announced in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
They got hold of them and put them in jail until the next day, because it was too late.
But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of men became about five thousand.
The next day it came to pass that their rulers, the elders, and the scribes met in Jerusalem;
and there was the high priest Annas, Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and all those of the high priest's lineage.
And putting them in the middle, they asked them: "With what power, or in what name have you done this?"
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: "Rulers of the people and elders:
If today we are investigated about the good done to a sick man, in what way he has been healed,
be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel, who have been in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead. For Jesus this man is standing healthy in his presence.
He is the stone rejected by you builders, which has become the head of the angle [a].
And in no other is there salvation, because there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we can be saved.
And seeing the courage of Peter and John, and considering that they were men without letters and unlearned, they were amazed and recognized that they had been with Jesus.
But since they saw the healed man standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.
So they ordered them to come out of the Sanhedrin and they were deliberating with each other,
saying, "What are we to do with these men?" For verily, it is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem that a remarkable sign has been made through them, and we cannot deny it.
But so that it is not spread more and more among the people, let us threaten them that from now on they will not speak to any person in this name.
Then they called them and strictly ordered them not to speak or teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answering, said to them: —Judge if it is right before God to obey you before God.
Because we cannot stop saying what we have seen and heard.
And after threatening them more, they released them, because because of the people they found no way to punish them; because everyone glorified God for what had happened,
for the man in whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old.
Once released, they went to theirs and told them everything the chief priests and elders had told them.
When they heard it, they raised their voices to God in one breath and said: "Sovereign [b], you are the one who made heaven and earth, the sea and everything in them,
and that by means of the Holy Spirit [c] through the mouth of our father David, your servant, you said: Why did the nations mutiny and plan vain things?
The kings of the earth rose and their rulers consulted together against the Lord and against his Anointed [d].
For truly, both Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel gathered in this city against your holy Servant Jesus, whom you anointed,
to carry out what your hand and your advice had determined beforehand to be done.
And now, Lord, look at their threats and grant your servants to speak your word with all courage.
Stretch out your hand that healings, signs and wonders may be done in the name of your holy Servant Jesus. "
When they finished praying, the place where they were meeting trembled, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with courage.
The crowd of those who had believed was of one heart and one soul. Neither claimed that they owned anything they owned, but that all things were common to them.
With great power the apostles bore witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all.
So there was no needy among them, because everyone who owned land or houses sold them, they brought the price of what was sold
and they put it at the feet of the apostles. And it was distributed to each one as needed.
So Joseph, who by the apostles was called Barnabas (which means son of consolation) and who was a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
As he had a field, he sold it, brought the money, and put it at the apostles' feet.