Peter and John went up to the temple together at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
And a man was brought who was lame from his mother's womb, whom they put every day at the door of the temple called the Beautiful, to ask alms of those who entered the temple.
When he saw Peter and John coming to the temple, he asked them to give him alms.
And Peter, with John, fixing his eyes on him, said: Look at us.
Then he was attentive to them, expecting to receive something from them.
And Peter said: I have neither silver nor gold, but what I have I give you: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, get up and walk!
And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were established;
and jumping, he stood up and walked; And he entered the temple with them, walking, and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him walk and praise God.
And they recognized that he was the one who sat asking for alms at the door of the temple, the Beautiful; and they were filled with amazement and terror at what had happened to him.
And while the lame man who had been healed was still clinging to Peter and John, all the people, astonished, went to them to the porch called Solomon's.
And when Peter saw this, he answered the people: "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or, why do you set your eyes on us, as if with our power or piety we had made this man walk?"
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Son Jesus, whom you delivered and denied before Pilate, when he had resolved to set him free.
But you denied the Holy and the Just, and asked that a murderer be given to you,
and you killed the Author of life, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And by faith in his name, this one, whom you see and know, has his name confirmed; and the faith that is for him has given him this complete healing in the presence of all of you.
But now, brothers, I know that you have done it out of ignorance, as have your rulers.
But God has thus fulfilled what he had previously announced through the mouth of all his prophets: that his Christ was to suffer.
So repent and convert so that your sins may be blotted out; for times of refreshment to come from the presence of the Lord,
and he send Jesus Christ, who was previously announced to you;
to whom indeed it is necessary that heaven receive until the times of the restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of his holy prophets that have been since ancient times.
Because Moses said to the parents: The Lord your God will raise up a prophet like me from your brothers; you will hear him in all the things that I will speak to you.
And it will come to pass that every soul that does not hear that prophet will be uprooted from the people.
And all the prophets from Samuel onwards, all who have spoken, have also announced these days.
You are the children of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with our parents, saying to Abraham: And in your descendants all the families of the earth will be blessed.
First of all, God, having raised up his Son, sent him to bless you, so that each one might turn from his wickedness.