Five days later, the high priest Ananias descended with some of the elders and a speaker, a certain Tertullus. They appeared before the procurator against Paul.
And being called this, Tertullus began to accuse him saying: —Since we enjoy a lot of peace, thanks to you, and reforms are being carried out for the benefit of this nation due to your prudence,
O most excellent Felix, we always and everywhere accept him with all gratitude.
But in order not to bother you any longer, I beg you to listen to us briefly, according to your equity.
Because we have found that this man is a plague, and he is a promoter of seditions among Jews around the world and leader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
He also tried to desecrate the temple, but we seized him.
We wanted to judge him according to our law. But the tribune Lysias intervened and with great violence took him from our hands.
By examining him, you yourself will be able to know all these things of which we accuse him.
The Jews also confirmed it, claiming that these things were so.
Then, when the procurator gave him a signal to speak, Pablo answered: —Knowing that for many years you have been judge of this nation, I will confidently present my defense.
You can make sure that it was not more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
They did not find me quarreling with anyone in the temple, or causing riots in the town, or in the synagogues, or in the city.
Nor can they prove the things they now accuse me of.
However, I confess this to you: that I serve the God of my parents according to the Way that they call sect, believing everything that is written in the Law and in the Prophets.
I have hope in God, which they also harbor, that there will be a resurrection of the just and the unjust.
And for this I always strive to have a conscience without remorse before God and men.
"After many years, I came to present donations and offerings to my nation.
While I was doing this, some Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple (not in a riot or uproar).
They should appear before you and bring charges, if they have anything against me.
Or that they say what crime they found when I appeared before the Sanhedrin,
except that when I was among them I uttered this cry: "Regarding the resurrection of the dead I am judged today by you!" [b].
Then Felix, being well informed about this Path, postponed them saying: —When tribune Lysias comes, I will examine your case.
He gave orders to the centurion that Paul should be guarded, but that he should have some privileges and that none of his own should be prevented from attending him.
A few days later, Felix came with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish. He sent for Paul, and he heard about faith in Jesus Christ.
When Pablo spoke of justice, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix was filled with fear and replied: —For now, go; But when I get a chance, I'll call you.
At the same time, Felix also hoped that some money would be given from Pablo. So she made him come frequently and talk to him.
But after two years, Felix received Porcius Festus as his successor, and wanting to ingratiate himself with the Jews, Felix imprisoned Paul.