He came to Derbe and Lystra, and behold, there was a certain disciple named Timothy, the son of a believing Jewish woman, but of a Greek father.
He was of good testimony among the brothers at Lystra and Iconium.
Paul wanted him to go with him, and taking him circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, because they all knew that his father was Greek.
When they passed through the cities, they were handed the decisions made by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem, to be observed.
Thus the churches were strengthened in the faith, and their number increased every day.
They crossed the region of Phrygia and Galatia, because they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
When they reached the border of Misia, they were trying to enter Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow it.
Then, after passing Misia, they descended to Troas.
And at night Paul was shown a vision in which a Macedonian man stood begging him and saying, "Come to Macedonia and help us!"
As soon as he saw the vision, we immediately tried to leave for Macedonia, certain that God had called us to announce the gospel to them.
So we set sail from Troas and headed straight for Samothrace, and the next day for Neapolis;
and thence to Philippi, which is a principal city in the province of Macedonia, and a colony. We spent a few days in that city.
And on Saturday we went out of the city gate, next to the river, where we thought there would be a place of prayer. We sat there and talked to the women who had gathered.
Then I listened to a certain woman named Lydia, whose heart the Lord opened to be attentive to what Paul was saying. She was a purple vendor from the city of Thyatira, and God-fearing.
As she and her family were baptized, she begged us saying: "Since you have judged that I am faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay." And forced us to do it.
It happened that, while we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a young slave girl who had a spirit of divination, which produced great profit to her masters, by guessing.
She, following Paul and us, cried out saying: —These men are servants of the Most High God, who announce to them the way of salvation!
I did this for many days. And Paul, already annoyed, turned around and said to the spirit: "I send you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her!" And it came out at the same moment.
But when their masters saw that their hope of profit had faded, they seized Pablo and Silas and dragged them to the plaza, before the authorities.
Introducing them to the magistrates, they said, "These men, being Jews, are stirring up our city!"
They preach customs that it is not lawful for us to receive or practice, since we are Romans!
Then the people rose up against one another. And the magistrates stripped them of their clothes with violence and ordered them to be beaten with rods.
After beating them with many lashes, they were thrown into prison and ordered the jailer to guard them with great safety.
When he received such an order, he put them in the inner dungeon and held his feet in the stocks.
At around midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them.
Then suddenly a strong earthquake struck, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. Instantly, all the doors opened and everyone's chains came loose.
When the jailer woke up and saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, because he thought the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here!"
Then he asked for light and launched himself inside, and fell prostrate before Paul and Silas.
Taking them outside, he said to them: "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus and you and your house will be saved."
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
At that hour of the night, he took them with him and washed the wounds from the lashes. And he was baptized immediately, with all his own.
He brought them into his house, set the table for them, and rejoiced that with all his house he had believed in God.
When daylight came, the magistrates sent the officers to say, "Release those men."
The jailer communicated these words to Paul: —The magistrates have sent orders that they be released; Now, then, go out and go in peace.
But Paul said to them: —After publicly whipping us without being condemned, being we Roman citizens, they threw us in jail; And now, are you sneaking us out? Well, no! Let them come and get us out!
The officers reported these words to the magistrates, who were afraid to hear that they were Romans.
And they went to them and apologized. After removing them, they begged them to leave the city.
Then, after leaving prison, they entered Lidia's house; and having seen the brothers, they exhorted them and then they departed.