After the disturbance ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and having exhorted them, he took his leave and left to go to Macedonia.
He toured those regions, exhorting them with an abundance of words, and then came to Greece.
After he was there for three months, the Jews hatched a plot against him when he was about to sail for Syria, so he decided to return to Macedonia.
Accompanied by Sopter the son of Pyrrh, of Berea, the Thessalonians Aristarchus and Second, Gaius of Derbe, Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia.
These left earlier and waited for us in Troas.
But after the days of Unleavened Bread, we sailed from Philippi and reached them after five days at Troas, where we stopped for seven days.
On the first day of the week, when we were meeting to break bread, Paul began to speak to them, because he was to leave the next day, and he extended the speech until midnight.
There were many lamps on the upper floor, where we were gathered.
And a certain young man named Eutico, who was sitting at the window, was getting a deep sleep. As Pablo kept talking for a long time, the young man, already overcome by sleep, fell from the third floor below and was raised dead.
Then Paul descended and fell on him, and hugging him said: "Do not be alarmed, because your life is in him!".
After going up, breaking the bread and eating, he spoke at length until dawn; and in this way it came out.
They brought the young man alive and were greatly comforted.
Having gone to the ship in advance, we sailed to Asón to receive Paul there, since he had so arranged, and he must go by land.
When he met us at Asón, we took him on board and went to Mytilene.
We sailed from there the next day and arrived in front of Chio. The next day, we docked at Samos [a], and arrived in Miletus the next day,
for Paul had decided to pass Ephesus not to stop in Asia; for, if possible, he was hastening to spend the day of Pentecost in Jerusalem.
From Miletus, Paul sent Ephesus and called the elders of the church.
When they got to him, he said, "You know how I have behaved towards you all along, from the first day I arrived in Asia,
serving the Lord with all humility and with many tears and tests that came to me for the snares of the Jews.
And they know that I have not shied away from announcing anything useful to them, and teaching them publicly and from house to house,
witnessing to the Jews and the Greeks about repentance towards God and faith in our Lord Jesus.
"Now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem with my spirit in chains, not knowing what will happen to me there;
except that the Holy Spirit bears witness to me in one city after another, saying that prisons and tribulations await me.
However, I do not consider my life to be of any value or precious to myself, provided that [b] my career and the ministry I received from the Lord Jesus end, to bear witness to the gospel of God's grace.
"Now, behold, I know that none of you, among whom I have passed preaching the kingdom, will ever see my face again.
Therefore, I declare before you today that I am clean from everyone's blood,
for I have not shied away from announcing to you all the counsel of God.
Take care for yourselves and for all the flock on which the Holy Spirit has placed you as bishops [c], to shepherd the Lord's church, which he acquired for himself through his own blood.
Because I know that after my departure rapacious wolves will enter in your midst that will not spare the flock's life;
and that from among yourselves men will arise who will speak wicked things to mislead the disciples after them.
Therefore, watch, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease to admonish each one with tears.
"And now, brothers, I entrust to God and to the word of his grace, the one who has the power to build and to inherit among all the sanctified.
"I have coveted neither silver nor gold nor anyone's dress.
You know that these hands provided for my needs and for those who were with me.
In everything I have shown you that working this way it is necessary to support the weak, and keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, who said: 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.' "
When he had said these things, he fell to his knees and prayed with all of them.
Then there was a great cry from everyone. They fell on Paul's neck and kissed him,
mostly regretting the word he had said that they would never see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship.