And speaking to the people, the priests came, and the chief of the temple guard and the Sadducees,
resentful that they taught the people and announced in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day, because it was too late.
But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about five thousand.
And it came to pass on the morrow that their rulers, and the elders, and the scribes, gathered in Jerusalem;
and the high priest Annas, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and all who were of the line of the high priests;
And putting them in the middle, they asked them: With what power or in what name have you done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: Rulers of the people and elders of Israel:
If we are questioned today about the benefit done to a sick man, how he has been healed,
Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead, through him this man is in your presence healthy.
This Jesus is the stone rejected by you builders, which has become the head of the corner.
And in no other is there salvation, because there is no other name under heaven, given to men, by which we can be saved.
Then seeing the audacity of Peter and John, and knowing that they were men without letters and ignorant, they marveled; and they recognized them as those who had been with Jesus.
And seeing the man who had been healed, who was standing with them, they couldn't say anything against it.
Then they commanded them to go outside the council; and they deliberated among themselves,
saying: What are we going to do with these men? For verily, a manifest miracle has been done by them, notorious to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But so that it is not spread more among the people, let us threaten them so that from now on they do not speak to any man in this name.
And calling them, they commanded them in no way to speak or teach in the name of Jesus.
Then Peter and John, answering, said to them: Judge whether it is right before God to obey you before God,
because we cannot stop saying what we have seen and heard.
They then threatened them and let them go, finding no way to punish them, because of the people, because they all glorified God for what had been done,
for the man in whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old.
And released, they came to their own and told everything that the chief priests and elders had told them.
And when they heard it, they lifted up their voice to God, and said, Lord, you are the God who made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them;
that through the mouth of your servant David, you said: Why have the nations mutinied, and the peoples thought vain things?
The kings of the earth attended, and the princes gathered together unanimously against the Lord, and against their Christ.
For they truly united in this city against your holy Son Jesus, whom you anointed, Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and those of the people of Israel,
to do whatever your hand and advice had previously determined to happen.
And now, Lord, look at their threats and grant your servants to speak your word with all boldness,
while you extend your hand for healings, and miracles and wonders through the name of your holy Son Jesus.
And after they had prayed, the place where they were gathered trembled; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly.
And the multitude of those who had believed was of one heart and one soul; and none of them said that anything they owned was theirs, but that they had all things in common.
And the apostles bore witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus with great power, and there was abundant grace upon them all.
So there was no needy among them, because all who owned estates or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold.
and they put it at the feet of the apostles; and it was distributed to each one according to his need.
Then Joseph, whom the apostles called by the nickname Barnabas (who is interpreted to be, son of consolation), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Since he had an inheritance, he sold it, and brought the money and placed it at the apostles' feet.