And it came to pass that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, after touring the upper regions, came to Ephesus, and meeting certain disciples,
He said to them: Have you received the Holy Spirit after you believed? And they said to him: We have not even heard if there is a Holy Spirit.
Then he said: In what then were you baptized? And they said: At the baptism of John.
And Paul said: John baptized with baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, namely, in Jesus the Christ.
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them; and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
And they were all like about twelve men.
And when Paul entered the synagogue, he spoke boldly for three months, arguing and persuading about the kingdom of God.
But some hardened, and not believing and cursing the Way before the crowd, Paul separated from them and took the disciples apart, and argued every day at the school of one named Tyrant.
And this continued for two years; so that all who lived in Asia, Jews and Greeks, heard the word of the Lord Jesus.
And God did extraordinary miracles by the hand of Paul,
in such a way that the aprons and handkerchiefs that had touched Paul's body were still brought to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits also left.
But some of the Jews, who were casting out demons, tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus on those who had evil spirits, saying: I command you by Jesus, the one Paul preaches.
And there were seven sons of a certain Esceva, a Jew, chief of the priests, who did this.
And the evil spirit answered and said: I know and know Jesus who is Paul; but you, who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit was, jumping on them and dominating them, was more powerful than they, in such a way that they fled from that house naked and wounded.
And this was notorious to all who lived in Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks; And fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many of those who had believed came, confessing and giving an account of their deeds.
Also, many of those who had practiced sorcery brought the books and burned them in front of everyone; and counting their price, they found that it was fifty thousand denarii.
Thus the word of the Lord grew and powerfully prevailed.
And after these things, Paul set out in the spirit to go to Jerusalem, after touring Macedonia and Achaia, saying: After I have been there, I will also need to see Rome.
And sending to Macedonia two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, he remained for some time in Asia.
At that time there was no small fuss about the Camino,
because a silversmith named Demetrius, who made silver temples of Diana, gave the craftsmen not a little profit;
to those who, reunited with the workers of the same office, said: Men, you know that from this office we obtain our profit;
but you see and you hear that this Paul, not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, has persuaded many people with persuasion, saying that they are not gods that are made with their hands.
And not only is there a danger that this, our business, will come to discredit itself, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana will be valued in nothing and her greatness, which honors all of Asia and the entire world, will begin to be destroyed. .
Hearing these things, they were filled with anger and shouted, saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
And the city was filled with confusion, and together they rushed to the theater, dragging Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, companions of Paul.
And when Paul wanted to go out before the people, the disciples did not leave him.
Some of the Asian authorities, who were his friends, also sent him a message, pleading with him not to appear in the theater.
And some shouted one thing and others another; because the crowd was confused, and most did not know why they had gathered.
And they brought Alexander out of the crowd, pushing him the Jews. Then Alexander, having asked for silence with his hand, wanted to speak in his defense before the people.
But when they realized he was Jewish, everyone with one voice shouted for almost two hours: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
Then the scribe, after appeasing the people, said: Ephesian men, and who of the men who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great goddess Diana, and of the descended image of Jupiter?
Since this cannot be contradicted, you need to calm down and do nothing rashly,
for you have brought these men, without being sacrilegious or blasphemers of your goddess.
That if Demetrius and the architects who are with him have a complaint with any, hearings are granted, and there are proconsuls; Reassure each other.
And if you demand something else, in a legitimate assembly you can decide.
Because there is a danger that we will be accused of sedition for what happened today, there being no reason why we can explain this tumult.
And having said this, he dismissed the audience.