And there was in Caesarea a man named Cornelius, a centurion of the company called the Italian,
devout and fearful of God with all his house, and that he made alms to the people and prayed to God always.
He saw clearly in vision, about the ninth hour of the day, that an angel of God came to him and said: Cornelius!
And he, looking at him fixedly and frightened, said: What is it, Lord? And he said to him: Your prayers and your alms have gone up for memory before God.
So now send men to Joppa and call Simon, whose surname is Peter.
This one lodges in the house of Simón, the tanner, who has his house by the sea; He will tell you what to do.
After the angel talking to Cornelius left, he called two of his servants and a devoted soldier who were assisting him,
to those whom he sent to Joppa, after having told him everything.
And the next day, while they were on the road and were approaching the city, Pedro went up to the roof to pray, about the sixth hour;
And it came to pass that he was very hungry, and wanted to eat; but while they were preparing something, an ecstasy came over him.
And he saw the open sky, and something like a great canvas was descending that, tied by the four ends, was lowered to the ground,
in which was of all the quadrupeds of the earth, and reptiles and birds of the sky.
And a voice came to him: Get up, Peter, kill and eat.
Then Peter said: Lord, no; for I have never eaten anything common or unclean.
And the voice returned to him the second time: What God has cleansed, do not call it common.
And this happened three times; and the canvas was again collected in the sky.
And while Peter hesitated within himself, wondering what the vision he had seen would be, behold, the men who had been sent by Cornelius, having asked for the house of Simon, came to the door.
And calling, they asked if Simon, whose nickname was Peter, was staying there.
And while Peter was thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold, three men are looking for you.
So get up and go down and do not hesitate to go with them, because I have sent them.
Then Peter, descending to where the men who were sent by Cornelius were, said: Here I am, I am the one you are looking for. What is the cause for which you have come?
And they said: Cornelius, the centurion, a just man, fearful of God, and who enjoys a good reputation among the entire nation of the Jews, has received notice from a holy angel to make you come to his house and hear your words.
Then, passing them off, he hosted them. And the next day, getting up, he went with them; and some of Joppa's brothers accompanied him.
And the next day they entered Caesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called his relatives and closest friends.
And when Peter entered, Cornelius came out to meet him; And falling down at his feet, she worshiped him.
But Peter raised him up, saying: Get up! I myself am also a man.
And speaking with him, he went in and found many who had gathered.
And he said to them, You know that it is forbidden for a Jewish man to associate with or approach a foreigner, but God has shown me not to call any man common or unclean;
therefore, when called, I have come without objection. So I ask: For what reason have you made me come?
Then Cornelius said: Four days ago I was fasting at this time; And at the ninth hour, while I was praying in my house, behold, a man in shining garments stood before me.
And he said: Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms have been remembered before God.
Send therefore Joppa and call Simon, whose surname is Peter; He is staying at the house of Simon, the tanner, by the sea, who, when he comes, will speak to you.
So, I immediately sent for you; and you have done well to come. Now, then, we are all here in the presence of God, to hear everything that God has commanded you.
Then Peter, opening his mouth, said: I truly understand that God is no respecter of persons,
but in every nation he is pleased with him who fears him and does what is right.
God sent the word to the children of Israel, announcing the gospel of peace through Jesus Christ; this is the Lord of all.
You know what was spread throughout Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism that John preached,
as for Jesus of Nazareth: how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil, because God was with him.
And we are witnesses to all the things that Jesus did in the land of Judea and in Jerusalem, whom they killed, hanging him on a tree.
This one God raised up on the third day and made him appear,
not to all the people, but to the witnesses that God had chosen beforehand, to us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
And he commanded us to preach to the people and testify that he is the one God has made a Judge of the living and the dead.
All the prophets bear witness of him, that all who believe in him will receive forgiveness of sins by his name.
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the message.
And the faithful of the circumcision who had come with Peter were astonished that the gift of the Holy Ghost was also poured out on the Gentiles,
because they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God.
Then Peter answered: Can anyone prevent the water, so that those who have received the Holy Spirit as well as us may not be baptized?
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they asked him to stay for a few days.