While Apollos was in Corinth, it happened that Paul, after touring the interior regions, went down to Ephesus and found certain disciples.
Then he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" They replied, "We haven't even heard of the Holy Spirit."
Then he said, "What, then, were you baptized in?" They replied, "At John's baptism."
And Paul said: —John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, in Jesus.
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
They were between all like twelve men.
For about three months, entering the synagogue, Paul boldly preached discussing and persuading about the things of the kingdom of God.
But since some hardened and refused to believe, speaking ill of the Way before the crowd, he separated from them and took the disciples apart, arguing every day at the Tyrant's school.
This continued for two years, so that all who lived in Asia, both Jews and Greeks, heard the word of the Lord [a].
God performed extraordinary miracles through the hands of Paul;
in such a way that they even wore handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched their bodies to put them on the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits left them.
But also some of the Jews, itinerant exorcists, began to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying: —I adjure you by the Jesus that Paul preaches!
There were seven children of a certain Esceva, a Jew, chief of the priests, who did this.
But the evil spirit answered and said to them: —I know Jesus, and I know who Paul is; but you, who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit was was launched on them, dominated them all and prevailed against them, in such a way that they fled naked and wounded from that house.
This event was known to all who lived in Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. Fear fell upon all of them, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
Many of those who had believed came publicly confessing and acknowledging their practices.
Also, a good number of those who had practiced magic brought their books and burned them in front of everyone. They calculated its value and found that it was fifty thousand silver coins.
In this way the word of the Lord grew and prevailed powerfully.
When these things were accomplished, Paul proposed in his spirit to go to Jerusalem after touring Macedonia and Achaia, saying: "After I have been in Jerusalem, I will also have to see Rome."
And after sending to Macedonia two of those who were helping him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stopped for some time in Asia.
Back then there was no small fuss about the Camino.
Because a certain silversmith, called Demetrius, who made silver temples from Artemis [b], and gave no small profit to artisans,
he reunited these with the workers of similar offices and said to them: —Men, they know that our prosperity comes from this office;
and they see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but also in most of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and separated many people, saying that they are not gods that are made with their hands.
There is not only the danger that this business of ours will fall into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be esteemed as nothing, and that her majesty, who is adored throughout Asia and the world, will soon be stripped of her majesty.
When they heard these words, they were filled with anger and shouted saying: —Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
And the city was filled with confusion. They unanimously threw themselves into the theater, snatching Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians and Pablo's companions.
Although Paul wanted to go out into the crowd, the disciples did not allow it.
Also some of the Asian authorities, who were his friends, sent him and pleaded with him not to appear in the theater.
Some shouted one thing and others something else; because the crowd was confused, and most of them didn't even know why they had gathered.
Then some of the crowd gave instructions to Alexander, whom the Jews had pushed forward. And Alejandro, asking for silence with his hand, wanted to make a defense before the people.
But recognizing that he was a Jew, they all shouted with one voice for almost two hours: "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"
At last, when the magistrate had pacified the crowd, he said: —Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of Ephesus is guardian of the temple of the majestic Artemis and of her image fallen from heaven? [C].
Since this cannot be contradicted, it is convenient that they calm down and do not do anything rash.
For they have brought these men who have neither committed sacrilege nor blasphemed our goddess.
Therefore, if Demetrius and the artisans who are with him have a lawsuit against someone, hearings are granted and there are proconsuls. Let them accuse each other!
And if they look for something else, it will be deliberated in a legitimate assembly.
But there is danger that we will be accused of sedition for this today, without having any reason by which we can account for this tumult.
And having said this, he dissolved the crowd.