And Saul consented to his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church that was in Jerusalem, and all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, with the exception of the apostles.
Some pious men buried Stephen, and made great lamentation for him.
Then Saul ravaged the church. Entering from house to house, he dragged both men and women and delivered them to prison.
So those who were scattered walked around announcing the word.
And Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them.
When people heard and saw the signals he was making, they listened carefully and in agreement to what Felipe was saying.
For from many people unclean spirits came out, shouting loudly, and many paralyzed and lame were healed;
so there was great rejoicing in that city.
A long time ago there was in the city a certain man named Simon, who practiced magic and deceived the people of Samaria, claiming to be someone great.
Everyone was attentive to him, from the smallest to the largest, saying: "This indeed is the Power of God, called Great!".
They paid attention to him, because with his magical arts he had amazed them for a long time.
But when they believed Philip as he announced the gospel of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, men and women were baptized.
Even Simon himself believed, and once baptized he accompanied Philip; and seeing the signs and great wonders that were done, I was astonished.
The apostles who were in Jerusalem, hearing that Samaria had received the word of God, sent Peter and John to them,
who came down and prayed for the Samaritans to receive the Holy Spirit.
For the Holy Spirit had not yet descended upon any of them; they had only been baptized in the name of Jesus.
Then they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit.
When Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money,
Saying, "Give me this power too, so that anyone to whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Ghost."
Then Peter said to him: "Your money perish with you, because you have thought to obtain for money the gift of God!"
You have no part or luck in this matter, because your heart is not right before God.
Repent therefore of this your wickedness and pray to God, if perhaps the thought of your heart will be forgiven you;
because I see that you are destined for gall of bitterness and chains of evil.
Then Simon answered and said, "Pray for me before the Lord, so that nothing you have said may come upon me.
They, after having testified and spoken the word of God, returned to Jerusalem and announced the gospel in many towns of the Samaritans.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip saying: "Get up and go south on the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza, which is desert."
He got up and went. And here is an Ethiopian eunuch, a high official of Candace, the queen of Ethiopia, who was in charge of all her treasures and who had come to Jerusalem to worship,
He came back sitting in his car reading the prophet Isaiah.
The Spirit said to Philip: "Come closer and join that car."
And Philip running ran up to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah. Then he said to her, "Do you understand what you read?"
And he said to him, "Well, how can I, unless someone guides me?" And she asked Philip to come up and sit next to him.
The portion of the Scriptures he read was this: As a sheep, he was led to the slaughterhouse, and as a dumb lamb before the shearer, so he did not open his mouth.
In his humiliation, he was denied justice; but who will tell their generation? Because his life is taken from the earth [a].
The eunuch answered Philip and said, "I beg you, whose prophet is this saying?" Does he say it about himself or someone else?
Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, he announced the gospel of Jesus to him.
As they were going down the road, they came to where there was water, and the eunuch said, "Here is water." What prevents me from being baptized?
[b],
And he ordered the car to stop. Philip and the eunuch both went down into the water, and he baptized him.
When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away. And the eunuch saw him no more, for he went on his joyous way.
But Philip found himself in Azoto, and passing by, he announced the gospel in all the cities, until he reached Caesarea.