And Saul consented to his death. And on that day there was a great persecution against the church that was in Jerusalem; and all were scattered throughout the lands of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And some pious men took Stephen to be buried and they made great weeping over him.
Then Saul ravaged the church; Entering each house, he dragged men and women, and delivered them to prison.
But those who were scattered went everywhere announcing the word.
Then Philip, descending to the city of Samaria, preached Christ to them.
And the people, unanimous, listened carefully to the things that Felipe said, hearing and seeing the miracles that he did.
Because of many who had unclean spirits, these came out with loud voices; and many paralyzed and lame were healed,
so there was great joy in that city.
And there was a man named Simon, who had previously witchcraft in that city and who had deceived the people of Samaria, claiming to be some great.
They all listened attentively from the smallest to the greatest, saying: This is the great power of God.
And they were attentive to him, because with his spells he had deceived them for a long time.
But when they believed Philip, who announced the gospel of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, men and women were baptized.
And even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized, he followed Philip; and seeing the miracles and the great wonders that were done, I was astonished.
And when the apostles who were in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John,
who, having come, prayed for them to receive the Holy Spirit
(Because they had not yet descended on any of them, but had only been baptized in the name of Jesus).
Then they laid hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
And when Simon saw that by the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,
saying: Give me this power also, so that whoever I lay my hands on may receive the Holy Spirit.
Then Peter said to him: Your money perish with you, because you have thought that the gift of God is obtained with money.
You have no part or luck in this matter, because your heart is not right before God.
Repent therefore of your wickedness and pray to God, and perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you;
because in gall of bitterness and chains of iniquity I see that you are.
And Simon answering said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these which ye have spoken come upon me.
And they, having testified and spoken the word of God, returned to Jerusalem, and in many villages of the Samaritans announced the gospel.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise and go south on the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza, which is desert.
Then he got up and went; and behold, an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a high official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was above all his treasures and had come to Jerusalem to worship,
He came back sitting in his car, reading the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip: Come closer and join that car.
And when Philip came, he heard him read the prophet Isaiah and said: But do you understand what you read?
And he said: And how can I if someone does not teach me? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him.
And the Scripture passage he was reading was this: He was led like a sheep to death; and like a dumb lamb before the shearer, so he did not open his mouth.
In his humiliation justice was not done; but his generation, who will count it? Because his life was taken from the earth.
And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, to whom does the prophet say this? From yourself or someone else?
Then Philip, opening his mouth and starting from this Scripture, announced the gospel of Jesus to him.
And going along the road, they came to a certain water; And the eunuch said, Behold, water; What prevents me from being baptized?
And Felipe said: If you believe with all your heart, you may well. And answering, he said: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he ordered the car to stop; And both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him.
And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away; and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
But Felipe found himself in Azoto; and passing, he announced the gospel in all the cities, until he reached Caesarea.