The apostles and brothers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision rebuked him,
saying: You entered the house of uncircumcised and ate with them.
Then Pedro began to explain what happened in order, saying:
I was praying in the city of Joppa, and I saw in ecstasy a vision: an object like a great canvas that descended from the sky at four points, and came to me.
When I fixed my eyes on him and observed him, I saw land quadrupeds, wild beasts, reptiles and birds of the sky.
I also heard a voice saying to me: "Get up Pedro, kill and eat."
But I said, "No way, Lord, because nothing impure or unclean has ever entered my mouth."
But a voice from heaven answered a second time: "What God has cleansed, do not call it impure."
This happened three times, and everything was taken up to heaven again.
And behold, at that moment three men appeared in front of the house where we were, who had been sent to me from Caesarea.
And the Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. These six brothers also went with me and we entered that man's house,
and he told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, who said to him: "Send Joppa and have Simon, who is also called Peter, brought in,
who will tell you words by which you will be saved, you and your whole house. "
When I began to speak, the Holy Spirit descended on them, just as it did on us at first.
Then I remembered the Lord's words when he said: "John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit."
So if God gave them the same gift that He also gave us after believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to be able to hinder God?
And when they heard this, they calmed down, and glorified God, saying: So also to the Gentiles has God granted the repentance that leads to life.
Now, those who had been scattered because of the persecution that occurred when Stephen died, reached Phenicia, Cyprus and Antioch, not speaking the word to anyone, but only to the Jews.
But there were some of them, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who when arriving in Antioch, also spoke to the Greeks, preaching the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed were converted to the Lord.
And the news of this reached the ears of the Jerusalem church and they sent Barnabas to Antioch,
who, when he came and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and encouraged everyone to remain faithful to the Lord with a firm heart;
because he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord.
And Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul;
and when he found it, he brought it to Antioch. And they met with the church for a whole year, and taught the multitudes; and the disciples were called Christians for the first time in Antioch.
In those days prophets descended from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And rising one of them, called Agabo, implied by the Spirit, that there would certainly be a great famine in all the earth. And this happened during Claudio's reign.
The disciples, according to what each one had, decided to send a contribution for the help of the brothers who lived in Judea.
And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.