And Saul, still breathing threats and death against the Lord's disciples, went to the high priest
and he asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any men or women from this Way, he would bring them prisoners to Jerusalem.
But as he was going down the road, it came to pass that, when he came near Damascus, he was suddenly surrounded by a blaze of light from heaven;
And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
And he said: Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said: I am Jesus, whom you persecute; it is hard for you to kick against the stinger.
Trembling and fearful, he said: Lord, what do you want me to do? And the Lord said to him, Get up and go into the city, and there you will be told what to do.
And the men who were with Saul stopped, stunned, hearing the voice, but not seeing anyone.
Then Saul rose from the ground and, opening his eyes, saw no one; so, taking him by the hand, they brought him to Damascus,
where he was three days without seeing, and did not eat or drink.
Then there was in Damascus a disciple named Ananias, to whom the Lord said in vision: Ananias. And he answered: Here I am, Lord.
And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go to the street called Right and look at Judas' house for one named Saul of Tarsus; because behold, he prays,
and she has seen in vision a man named Ananias who enters and lays his hands on him so that he can see again.
Then Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard from many about this man and how many evils he has done to your saints in Jerusalem;
and even here he has the authority of the chief priests to apprehend all who call on your name.
And the Lord said to him: Go, for this is my chosen instrument to bear my name in the presence of the Gentiles, and of kings, and of the children of Israel;
because I will show you how much you need to suffer for my name.
Ananias then went and entered the house, and laying his hands on him, he said: Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road where you were coming, has sent me to recover your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
And immediately scales fell from his eyes, and he instantly regained his sight; and getting up, he was baptized.
And when he had eaten, he was strengthened. And Saul was with the disciples who were in Damascus for a few days.
And immediately he preached Christ in the synagogues, saying that this was the Son of God.
And all who heard him were astonished and said: Is not this the one who devastated those who called on this name in Jerusalem, and that is why he came here to bring them to the main priests as prisoners?
But Saul was much stronger and confused the Jews who lived in Damascus, demonstrating that Jesus is the Christ.
And after many days, the Jews decided in council to kill him;
but his ambushes were known to Saul. And they guarded the gates day and night to kill him.
Then the disciples, taking him at night, took him down the wall, taking him down in a basket.
And when he arrived in Jerusalem, he was trying to meet the disciples; but everyone was afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.
Then Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and told them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road, who had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
And he went in and out with them in Jerusalem,
and spoke boldly in the name of the Lord; and he disputed with the Greeks, but they tried to kill him.
When the brothers found out, they accompanied him to Caesarea and sent him to Tarsus.
The churches then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and were built, walking in the fear of the Lord; and with the consolation of the Holy Spirit, they multiplied.
And it came to pass that Peter, traveling everywhere, also came to the saints that dwelt in Lida.
And there he found one named Aeneas, who had been in bed for eight years, since he was paralyzed.
And Peter said to him: Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; get up and make your bed. And immediately he got up.
And all the inhabitants of Lida and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
There was then at Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, who is interpreted to mean Dorcas. This abounded in good works and in alms that he did.
And it came to pass that in those days he fell ill and died. And after they had washed the body, they put him in a high room.
And since Lida was close to Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to plead with him: Do not delay in coming to us.
Then Peter got up and went with them; And when he arrived, they took him to the room, where all the widows surrounded him, crying and showing the robes and dresses that Dorcas had made when he was with them.
Then, sending everyone out, Peter got down on his knees and prayed; and turning towards the body, he said: Tabitha, get up! And she opened her eyes and when she saw Pedro, she sat up.
And he gave her his hand and raised her up; then, calling the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
This was notorious for all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
And it came to pass that Peter stayed many days in Joppa in the house of a certain Simon, a tanner.