Then Agrippa said to Paul: You are allowed to speak for yourself. Paul then, extending his hand, thus began his defense, saying:
About all the things of which I am accused by the Jews, O king Agrippa, I consider myself happy that I have to defend myself before you today;
mainly because you know all the customs and questions that exist among the Jews; therefore, I beg you to listen to me patiently.
My life, then, from my youth, which from the beginning I spent in my nation, in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews,
who also know that from the beginning, if you want to testify it, according to the most rigorous sect of our religion, I lived as a Pharisee.
And now, in the hope of God's promise to our parents, I am called to judgment;
This is the promise that our twelve tribes hope to reach, fervently serving God day and night. For this hope, O King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews.
Than! Is it unbelievable among you that God raises the dead?
I certainly believed that it was my duty to do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth,
Which I also did in Jerusalem; and I imprisoned many of the saints, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were killed, I gave my vote.
And many times, punishing them in all synagogues, I forced them to blaspheme; and greatly enraged against them, I pursued them even in foreign cities.
Engaged in this, I was going to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests,
when at noon, O king, going down the road, I saw a light from heaven that surpassed the glare of the sun, which surrounded me and those who were with me.
And having all of us fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me and saying in the Hebrew language: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the stinger.
I then said: Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said: I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
But get up and stand on your feet; because for this I have appeared to you, to put you as minister and witness of the things that you have seen and of those in which I will appear to you,
Delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I now send you,
that you may open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God; that they may receive, through faith in me, remission of sins and inheritance among the sanctified.
Therefore, O king Agrippa, I was not rebellious to the heavenly vision;
Rather, I announced first to those in Damascus and Jerusalem, and throughout the land of Judea, and to the Gentiles, to repent and convert to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
Because of this the Jews, taking me in the temple, tried to kill me.
But having received help from God, I persevere to this day, bearing witness to young and old, saying nothing apart from the things that the prophets and Moses said were to happen:
that the Christ was to suffer, and be the first of the resurrection of the dead, to announce light to the people and to the Gentiles.
And saying these things in his defense, Festus with a loud voice said: You are crazy, Pablo! The many letters drive you crazy!
But he said: I am not crazy, most excellent Festus, but I speak words of truth and sanity.
The king, before whom I also speak confidently, knows these things, because I do not think he ignores any of this, because this has not been done in some corner.
Do you believe, O king Agrippa, the prophets? I know what you think!
Then Agrippa said to Paul: You almost persuaded me to become a Christian.
And Paul said: May God grant that little or much, not only you, but also all who hear me today, were made as I am, except these chains!
And when he had said these things, the king and the governor arose, and Berenice and those who had sat with them;
and when they withdrew apart, they spoke to one another, saying: Nothing worthy of death or imprisonment has this man done.
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man could be released if he had not appealed to Caesar.