After separating from them, we set sail and headed directly for Cos, the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Pátara;
and finding a ship leaving for Phenicia, we got on board and set sail.
When we sighted Cyprus, leaving it to the left, we sailed towards Syria, and disembarked at Tire because the ship had to leave its cargo there.
After finding the disciples, we stayed there for seven days, and they told Paul, by the Spirit, not to go to Jerusalem.
And after those days we left and began our journey while all of them, with their wives and children, accompanied us to the outskirts of the city. After kneeling down and praying on the beach, we said goodbye to each other.
So we got on the boat and they returned to their homes.
After the journey from Tire, we arrived at Tolemaida, and after greeting the brothers, we stayed with them one day.
The next day we left and arrived at Caesarea, and entering the house of Philip, the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.
He had four daughters damsels who prophesied.
And stopping there for several days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea,
who came to see us, and took the belt of Paul, tied his hands and feet, and said: Thus says the Holy Spirit: "Thus shall the Jews bind the owner of this belt in Jerusalem, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles "
Hearing this, we and those who lived there begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Then Paul answered: What are you doing, crying and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
Since he was not persuaded, we kept quiet, saying to ourselves: May the Lord's will be done.
After these days we prepare and begin to go up to Jerusalem.
And some of the disciples from Caesarea also accompanied us, leading us to Mnason of Cyprus, a former disciple with whom we should stay.
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us with joy.
And the next day Paul went with us to see James, and all the elders were present.
And after greeting them, he began to tell them one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
And they, when they heard it, glorified God and said to him: Brother, you see how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed, and they are all jealous of the law;
And they have been told about you, that you teach all the Jews among the Gentiles to depart from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or observe the traditions.
So what is to be done? Because no doubt the crowd will gather because they will hear that you have come.
Therefore, do this as we tell you: We have four men who have made a vow;
take them and purify yourselves along with them, and pay their expenses to shave their heads; and everyone will know that there is nothing certain in what they have been told about you, but that you also live orderly, obeying the law.
But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have written to them, having decided that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from fornication.
Then Paul took the men with him, and the next day, purifying himself along with them, he went to the temple, notifying of the end of the days of purification, until the sacrifice was offered for each one of them.
When the seven days were near, the Jews of Asia, seeing him in the temple, began to incite all the people, and laid hands on him,
shouting: Israelites, help us! This is the man who teaches everyone, everywhere, against our people, the law and this place; Furthermore, he has even brought Greeks to the temple, and has desecrated this holy place.
For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and thought that Paul had brought him to the temple.
The whole city was in turmoil, and the town came running from everywhere; seizing Paul they dragged him out of the temple, and instantly closed the doors.
While they were trying to kill him, notice came to the commander of the Roman company that all of Jerusalem was in confusion.
Immediately he took with him some soldiers and centurions, and ran towards them; When they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped hitting Pablo.
Then the commander came and seized him, and ordered that he be bound with two chains; and asked who he was and what he had done.
But among the crowd some were shouting one thing and others another, and since he could not find out with certainty the facts, due to the tumult, he ordered that they take him to the barracks.
When he reached the stands, it happened that the soldiers had to carry him because of the violence of the mob;
because the crowd of the people followed him, shouting: Die!
When they were about to put Pablo in the barracks, he said to the commander: Can I tell you something? And he said *: Do you know Greek?
So you are not the Egyptian who long ago raised a revolt and brought the four thousand men out of the assassins into the desert?
Paul replied: I am a Jew from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of a city not without importance; I beg you to allow me to speak to the people.
When the commander granted permission, Paul, standing on the steps, signaled to the people with his hand, and when there was great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying:
