After the commotion stopped, Paul sent for the disciples, and having exhorted them, saying goodbye, he left to go to Macedonia.
And after touring those regions and having exhorted them a lot, he arrived in Greece.
He spent three months there, and having plotted a conspiracy against him on the part of the Jews when he was about to embark for Syria, he decided to return to Macedonia.
And accompanied by S贸pater de Berea, son of Pirro; Aristarchus and Second of the Thessalonians; Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia.
But these had gone ahead and were waiting for us at Troas.
We sailed to Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and in five days we reached where they were in Troas; and there we stayed seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when we were meeting to break bread, Pablo spoke to them, thinking of leaving the next day, and he continued his speech until midnight.
There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered;
and a young man named Eutychus was sitting at the window; and as Pablo continued speaking, Eutico fell into a deep sleep until, overcome by sleep, he fell from the third floor and was raised dead.
But Paul came down and stretched out on him, and after embracing him, said: Do not be alarmed, because he is alive.
And going back upstairs, after breaking bread and eating, he talked at length with them until dawn, and then he left.
And they took the boy alive, and were greatly comforted.
So we, going ahead to take the ship, set sail for As贸n, with the purpose of picking up Paul there, because he had decided so, wanting to go by land to As贸n.
When he found us in As贸n, we received him on board and headed to Mytilene.
And setting sail from there, the next day we arrived in front of Chio; and the next day we docked at Samos; having made a stopover in Trogilio, the next day we arrived at Miletus.
Because Paul had decided to put Ephesus aside so as not to stop in Asia, because he was rushing to be, if possible, on the day of Pentecost in Jerusalem.
And from Miletus he sent a message to Ephesus and called the elders of the church.
When they came to him, he said to them: You know how I have been with you all along, from the first day I was in Asia,
serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears and trials that came upon me because of the intrigues of the Jews;
how I did not shy away from declaring anything useful to you, and from teaching you publicly and from house to house,
solemnly testifying, to both Jews and Greeks, of repentance towards God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, I, bound in spirit, go to Jerusalem without knowing what will happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit solemnly witnesses me in every city, saying that chains and afflictions await me.
But in no way do I value my life as valuable to myself, in order to finish my career and the ministry I received from the Lord Jesus, to solemnly bear witness to the gospel of God's grace.
And now, behold, I know that none of you, among whom I have preached the kingdom, will ever see my face again.
Therefore, I bear witness to you this day that I am innocent of everyone's blood,
for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God.
Take care of yourselves and of all the flock, in the midst of which the Holy Spirit has made you bishops to shepherd the church of God, which He bought with his own blood.
I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come among you who will not spare the flock,
and that among yourselves some will rise up speaking wicked things to drag the disciples after them.
Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease to admonish each one with tears.
Now I entrust you to God and to the word of his grace, which is powerful to build you up and give you the inheritance among all the sanctified.
Neither silver, nor gold, nor anyone's clothes have I coveted.
You know that these hands served me for my own needs and those of those who were with me.
In everything I showed you that, working, you must help the weak, and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, who said: "It is more blessed to give than to receive."
When he finished speaking, he knelt down and prayed with all of them.
And they began to cry inconsolably, and hugging Pablo, they kissed him,
especially distressed at the word he had said that they would never see his face again. And they accompanied him to the boat.