Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the Lord's disciples, presented himself to the high priest
and he asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, in order to take anyone he found out of the Way [a], man or woman, to Jerusalem.
While traveling, arriving near Damascus, it suddenly happened that a glow of light surrounded him from the sky.
He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?"
And he said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he answered: —I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting [b].
But get up, go into the city, and you will be told what to do.
The men who were with Saul had been left standing, silent. In truth, they heard the voice, but saw no one.
Then Saul was lifted off the ground, and even with his eyes open he saw nothing. So, guiding him by the hand, they led him to Damascus.
For three days he was without seeing, and did not eat or drink.
There was a certain disciple in Damascus named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in vision, "Ananias." He replied, "Here I am, Lord."
The Lord said to him: "Get up, go to the street called La Derecha and look at Judas' house for one named Saulo de Tarso; because behold he is praying,
and in a vision [c] she has seen a man named Ananias come in and put his hands on him so that he can see again.
Then Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard many speak of this man, and of how many evils he has done to your saints in Jerusalem.
Even here he has authority on the part of the chief priests to take all who call on your name as prisoners.
And the Lord said to him: —Go, because this man is a chosen instrument to carry my name before the Gentiles, the kings and the children of Israel.
Because I will show you how much you need to suffer for my name.
Then Ananias went and entered the house; He put his hands on him and said: —Saul, brother, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road where you were coming, has sent me to recover your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he saw again. He got up and was baptized;
and having eaten, he regained his strength. Saul spent some days with the disciples who were in Damascus.
And immediately he preached Jesus in the synagogues, saying: —This is the Son of God.
All who heard him were astonished and said, "Isn't this the one who ravaged those who called on this name in Jerusalem?" And hasn't he come here for that very reason, to bring them prisoners before the main priests?
But Saul was further strengthened and confused the Jews who lived in Damascus, showing that Jesus was the Christ.
After many days, the Jews consulted each other to kill him;
but his ambushes were known to Saul. And they guarded even the gates of the city day and night to kill him.
Then his disciples took Saul at night and carried him down the wall in a basket.
When he went to Jerusalem, he was trying to join the disciples; and they were all afraid of him, because they did not believe that he was a disciple.
But Barnabas received him and led him to the apostles. He told them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had spoken with him, and how in Damascus he had boldly preached in the name of Jesus.
So he went in and out with them in Jerusalem,
boldly preaching in the name of the Lord. He talked and argued with the Hellenists, but they tried to kill him.
Then, when the brothers found out, they accompanied him to Caesarea and sent him to Tarsus.
So throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria the church had peace. He was building up and living in the fear of the Lord, and with the comfort of the Holy Spirit multiplied.
It happened that while Peter was touring everywhere, he also went to visit the saints who lived in Lida.
There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, as he was paralyzed.
Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you! Get up and fix your bed." He immediately got up,
And all who lived in Lida and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
Then there was in Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which translated is Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of mercy that she did.
It happened in those days that she got sick and died. After washing it, they put it in a room on the top floor.
As Lida was close to Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to plead with him: "Do not delay in coming to us."
Then Peter got up and went with them. When he arrived, they took him to the living room and surrounded all the widows, crying and showing him the robes and dresses that Dorcas made when he was with them.
After taking everyone out, Peter got down on his knees and prayed; and turned towards the body, he said: "Tabitha, get up!" She opened her eyes, and when she saw Pedro, she sat down.
He shook her hand and raised it. Then he called the saints and the widows, and presented her alive.
This was known throughout Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
Peter stayed many days in Joppa, in the house of a certain Simon, tanner.