In the church that was in Antioch there were prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simon named Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, who had been raised with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul.
As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
So after fasting, praying, and laying hands on them, they sent them off.
They, therefore, sent by the Holy Spirit, descended to Seleucia and from there embarked for Cyprus.
Arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews; and they also had Juan as an assistant.
After having traveled all over the island to Paphos, they found a certain magician, a false Jewish prophet named Barjesus,
who was with the proconsul Sergio Paulo, an intelligent man. He called for Barnabas and Saul, and he wanted to hear the word of God.
But Elymas the magician (for thus his name is translated), opposed them, trying to divert the proconsul from the faith.
Then Saul, also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his gaze on him,
He said: You son of the devil, who are full of all deceit and fraud, enemy of all justice, will you not cease to twist the straight ways of the Lord?
Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you; you will go blind and you will not see the sun for some time. Instantly mist and darkness fell on him, and he was looking for someone to guide him by the hand.
Then the proconsul, when he saw what had happened, believed, marveled at the doctrine of the Lord.
Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, and arrived at Perge from Pamphylia; but John, turning away from them, returned to Jerusalem,
but they, leaving Perge, arrived at Antioch from Pisidia; On the Sabbath they entered the synagogue and sat down.
After reading the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent them to say: Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, speak.
Paul stood up, and gesturing with his hand said: Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen:
The God of this people of Israel, chose our parents and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt, and with raised arm he brought them out of it.
And for a period of about forty years he endured them in the desert.
After destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed his lands as an inheritance; all this lasted about four hundred and fifty years.
And after this, he gave judges to the prophet Samuel.
So they asked for a king, and God gave Saul son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
After removing it, he raised David as king, of whom God also testified and said: "I HAVE FOUND DAVID, son of Jesse, A MAN ACCORDING TO MY HEART, who will do all my will."
From his offspring, according to the promise, God has given Israel a Savior, Jesus,
after John preached, before his coming, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
When John was about to finish his career, he said: "Who do you think I am? I am not the Christ; but behold, there comes after me one of whom I am not worthy to untie the sandals from his feet."
Brothers, children of the lineage of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this salvation is sent to us.
For those who dwell in Jerusalem and its rulers, without acknowledging Him or the words of the prophets that are read every Sabbath, fulfilled these scriptures, condemning Him.
And though they found no cause to kill him, they asked Pilate to have him killed.
And when they had fulfilled all that was written about Him, they took Him down from the cross and put Him in a grave.
But God raised him from the dead;
and for many days he appeared to those who had gone up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.
And we announce the good news that the promise made to parents,
God has fulfilled it to our children by resurrecting Jesus, as it is also written in the second psalm: MY SON IS YOU; I HAVE BORN YOU TODAY.
And as for raising him from the dead to never return to corruption, God has spoken in this way: I WILL GIVE YOU THE SAINTS and FAITHFUL mercies promised TO DAVID.
Therefore he also says in another psalm: YOU WILL NOT ALLOW YOUR HOLY ONE TO SEE CORRUPTION.
Because David, having served the purpose of God in his own generation, slept, and was buried with his parents, and saw corruption.
But the one whom God raised from the dead did not see corruption.
Therefore, brothers, know that through Him the forgiveness of sins is announced to you;
and that of all the things of which you could not be justified by the law of Moses, through Him, everyone who believes is justified.
Take care, therefore, that what is spoken of in the prophets does not come upon you:
LOOK, SCRATCHERS, WONDERS AND PERISH; BECAUSE I DO A WORK IN YOUR DAYS, A WORK YOU WOULD NEVER BELIEVE EVEN IF SOMEONE DESCRIBED IT TO YOU.
As Paul and Barnabas left, the people begged them to tell them about these things on the next Sabbath.
And after the synagogue meeting ended, many of the Jews and God-fearing proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, urged them to persevere in the grace of God.
On the next Sabbath, almost the entire city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
But when the Jews saw the crowd, they became zealous, and blaspheming, contradicted what Paul said.
Then Paul and Barnabas spoke courageously and said: It was necessary that the word of God be preached to you first; but since you reject it and do not judge yourself worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
For thus the Lord has commanded us: I HAVE PUT YOU AS LIGHT FOR THE GENTILES, SO THAT YOU BRING SALVATION TO THE END OF THE EARTH.
When the Gentiles heard this, they rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord; and all who were ordained to eternal life believed.
And the word of the Lord spread throughout the region.
But the Jews instigated the pious and distinguished women, and the most prominent men in the city, and provoked a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region.
Then they shook the dust off their feet against them and went to Iconium.
And the disciples were continually filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.
