Brothers and fathers, hear my defense before you now.
(And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they kept more silence). And he said to them:
I am indeed a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but raised in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, instructed strictly according to the law of our parents, jealous of God, as all of you are today.
I was pursuing this path to death, arresting and delivering men and women to jails,
as also the high priest is a witness to me and all the elders, from whom I also received letters for the brothers, and I was going to Damascus to bring prisoners to Jerusalem even those who were there, so that they would be punished.
But it came to pass that as I was going, when I came near Damascus, at about noon, suddenly much light from heaven surrounded me;
and I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me: Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?
I then replied: Who are you, Lord? And he said to me: I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.
And those who were with me really saw the light and were shocked, but they did not hear the voice of the one speaking with me.
And I said: What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me, Arise and go to Damascus, and there you will be told all that you are appointed to do.
And because I did not see because of the glory of the light, led by the hand by those who were with me, I arrived in Damascus.
Then there was one named Ananias, a pious man according to the law, who had a good testimony of all the Jews who lived there,
He came to me and, coming closer, said to me: Brother Saul, receive your sight again. And in that same hour I recovered my sight and looked at him.
And he said: The God of our fathers has chosen you to know his will, and to see that Just One and to hear the voice of his mouth.
Because you will be his witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.
Now why do you stop? Get up and be baptized and wash your sins, calling on his name.
And it happened to me, back in Jerusalem, that praying in the temple, an ecstasy came over me.
And I saw him saying to me: Hurry up and leave Jerusalem quickly, because they will not receive your testimony about me.
And I said: Lord, they know that I imprisoned and flogged in all the synagogues those who believed in you;
and when Esteban's blood was spilled, your witness, I myself was also present, and consented to his death and kept the clothes of those who killed him.
But he said to me: Go, because I will send you away to the Gentiles.
And they heard him even this word; Then they raised their voices, saying: Remove this man from the earth, because it is not convenient for him to live.
And crying out, and throwing their clothes and throwing dust into the air,
The tribune ordered him to be taken to the fortress and ordered that he be interrogated with lashes, to find out for what reason they were crying out against him.
But when they tied him up with leashes, Paul said to the centurion who was present: Is it lawful for you to scourge a Roman citizen without having been condemned?
And when the centurion heard this, he went and gave notice to the tribune, saying: What are you going to do? Because this man is a Roman citizen.
The tribune came and said to him: Tell me, are you a Roman citizen? And he said: Yes.
And the tribune answered: I with a large sum acquired this citizenship. Then Paul said: But I am one by birth.
So immediately those who would torment him departed from him; and even the tribune was also afraid to know that he was a Roman citizen, for having bound him.
And the next day, wanting to know with certainty the reason for which he was accused by the Jews, he released him from the chains, and ordered the chief priests and the entire council to come; And taking Paul out, he presented him before them.