Then some who came from Judea taught the brothers: "If you are not circumcised according to the rite of Moses, you cannot be saved."
Since not a little contention and discussion arose between Paul and Barnabas against them, the brothers determined that Paul, Barnabas, and a few others of them would go up to Jerusalem to the apostles to deal with this matter [a].
Then those who had been sent by the church passed through Phenicia and Samaria, recounting the conversion of the Gentiles; and they gave great joy to all the brothers.
Once they arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and by the apostles and by the elders, and they told them all the things that God had done with them.
But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed rose up saying: —It is necessary to circumcise them and command them to keep the law of Moses.
Then the apostles and the elders met to consider this matter.
As there was a great strife, Peter got up and said to them: —Brothers, you know that, from the first days, God chose among you that the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel through my mouth and believe.
And God, who knows hearts, bore witness for them by giving them the Holy Spirit just as we do,
and made no difference between us and them, for it purified their hearts by faith.
Now, why do they put God to the test, placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our parents nor we have been able to bear?
Rather, we believe that we are saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they are.
Then the entire assembly was silent. And they listened to Barnabas and Paul, while they counted how many signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
When they finished speaking, Jacobo responded saying: —Brothers, listen to me:
Simon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from among them a people for his name.
With this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written:
"After this I will return and rebuild the tabernacle of David, which is fallen. I will rebuild its ruins and raise it up again,
so that the rest of men may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is invoked, "
says the Lord who does [b] these things [c], which are known from eternity [d].
Therefore I judge that the Gentiles who convert to God should not be disturbed,
Rather, write to them to stay away from the contaminations of idols, sexual immorality, the strangled and blood.
Because since ancient times Moses has in each city those who preach to him in the synagogues, where he is read every Saturday.
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders with the whole church to send some chosen men from among them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas who was nicknamed Barsabas, and Silas, who were prominent men among the brothers.
Through them they wrote: The apostles, the elders and the brothers, to the Gentile brothers who are in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia. Regards.
Because we have heard that some who have come out of us, whom we did not give instructions, have bothered them with words, upsetting their lives,
hand in hand it seemed good to us to choose some men and send you to our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So we have sent Judas and Silas, who will also confirm the same report to them in word.
Because it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us not to impose any burden on them other than these necessary things:
abstain from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from sexual immorality [e]. If you keep yourselves from such things, you will do well. Good luck.
Then, once dismissed, they descended to Antioch; and when they had assembled the assembly, they delivered the letter.
As they read it, they rejoiced at this encouraging word.
Judas and Silas, as they were also prophets, exhorted the brothers with abundance of words and strengthened them.
After spending some time there, they were fired in peace by the brothers to return to those who had sent them.
But it seemed good to Silas to stay there.
But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching the word of the Lord and announcing the gospel with many others.
After a few days, Paul said to Barnabas: "Let us go back to visit the brothers in all the cities in which we have announced the word of the Lord, to see how they are."
Barnabas wanted to take John, named Marcos, with him;
but it seemed good to Paul not to take with him who had departed from them from Pamphylia and who had not gone with them to work.
Such disagreement arose between them that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus;
and Paul chose Silas and left entrusted by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
Then he toured Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.