Around this time King Herod reached out to some who belonged to the church to mistreat them.
And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
And seeing that this pleased the Jews, he also had Peter arrested. This happened during the days of unleavened bread.
And having taken him prisoner, he put him in prison, handing him over to four soldiers' pickets to guard him, with the intention of taking him to the town after Easter.
So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was fervently praying to God for him.
And that night, when Herod was about to take him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains; and some guards in front of the door guarded the jail.
And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him, and a light shone in the cell; And the angel touched Peter on the side, and woke him up saying: Get up soon. And the chains fell from his hands.
And the angel said to him: Get dressed and put on your sandals. And so he did. And the angel said to him, "Wrap yourself in your cloak and follow me.
And going out, he followed him, and he did not know that what the angel was doing was real, but believed that he was seeing a vision.
When the first and second guards had passed, they reached the iron gate leading to the city, which opened for itself; and they went out and followed a street, and immediately the angel turned away from him.
When Peter came to, he said: Now I know for a fact that the Lord has sent his angel, and has rescued me from Herod's hand and from all that the Jewish people expected.
Realizing this, he went to the house of Mary, John's mother, also called Mark, where many were gathered and praying.
And when he knocked on the front door, a maid named Rode came out to see who it was.
Recognizing Pedro's voice, she did not open the door with joy, but ran inside and announced that Pedro was at the door.
And they said to her: You are crazy! But she insisted that it was so. And they said: It is their angel.
But Pedro kept calling; and when they opened, they saw it and were amazed.
And motioning for them to be silent, he told them how the Lord had taken him out of prison. And he said to them: Report these things to James and to the brothers. So he went out, and went to another place.
When daylight came, there was no small fuss among the soldiers about what would have become of Pedro.
And Herod, after searching for it and not finding it, questioned the guards and ordered them to be taken to execute them. Then he came down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there for a time.
Herod was very angry with those of Tire and Sidon; but they, by mutual agreement, presented themselves before him, and having won over to Blasto, the king's waiter, they asked for peace because their territory was supplied by that of the king.
On the appointed day Herod, dressed in royal clothing, sat on the rostrum and harangued them.
And the people shouted: Voice of a god and not of a man is this!
Instantly an angel of the Lord struck him, for not having given glory to God; and died of worms.
But the word of the Lord grew and multiplied.
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem after completing their mission, taking with them John, also called Mark.