Three days after assuming command of the province, Festus went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
Then the chief priests and the leaders of the Jews appeared before him against Paul, and begged him
asking against him the favor of having him brought to Jerusalem. Meanwhile, they were preparing an ambush to assassinate him on the way.
But Festus replied that Paul was guarded in Caesarea, and that he would shortly depart there himself.
He said: —Those who can among you come down with me; and if there is any fault in this man, accuse him.
After stopping between them no more than eight or ten days, he descended to Caesarea; and the next day he sat in the court and ordered that Paul be brought in.
When he arrived, the Jews who had descended from Jerusalem surrounded him, making many and serious accusations against him, which they could not prove;
while Paul said in his defense: —In nothing I have sinned, neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the people, nor against Caesar.
But Festus, wanting to ingratiate himself with the Jews, answered Paul and said: "Do you want to go up to Jerusalem to be judged there before me about these things?"
Pablo answered: —I am before the tribunal of Caesar, where I must be judged. I have done no injustice to the Jews, as you well know.
If I am doing any injustice or if I have done something worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there is no truth in the things of which they accuse me, nobody can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.
Then Festus, having consulted the council, replied: "You have appealed to Caesar." You will go to Caesar!
After a few days, King Agrippa and Berenice went to Caesarea to greet Festus.
As they spent many days there, Festus presented the case of Paul to the king, saying: "There is a certain man who has been imprisoned by Felix,
Regarding whom the chief priests and elders of the Jews presented themselves to me when I went up to Jerusalem, seeking sentence against him.
I replied to them that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused has his accusers present and has an opportunity to make his defense against the accusation.
So, having come here together, without delay, the next day, I sat in court and ordered the man brought.
But when the accusers appeared, they did not bring any accusation regarding him, of the crimes [a] that I suspected.
They only had certain questions against him about his own religion and about a certain Jesus, now deceased, of whom Paul affirmed that he is alive.
I, hesitating with such a case, asked him if he wanted to go to Jerusalem and be judged for these things there.
But since Pablo appealed to be taken into custody for Augusto's decision, I ordered that they keep him until I sent him to Caesar.
Then Agripa said to Festo: —I would also like to hear the man. And he said, "Tomorrow you will hear him."
So the next day Agrippa and Berenice came with much pomp, and after they entered the audience hall with the tribunes and the principal of the city, Paul was brought in by command of Festus.
Then Festus said: —King Agrippa, and all the men here with us: Look at this man, about whom the whole multitude of the Jews have come to me, both in Jerusalem and here, crying out that he should not live plus.
But I found that he had done nothing worthy of death, and having appealed to Augustus himself, I have determined to send him.
But I have no truth to write to my lord about him. That is why I have brought him before you, and especially before you, O king Agrippa, so that after examining him, I may have something to write.
Because it seems to me an unreasonable thing to send a prisoner without also stating the charges against him.