And it came to pass at Iconium that they entered into the synagogue of the Jews together, and spoke in such a way that a great multitude of Jews and Greeks also believed.
But the Jews who did not believe incited and altered the spirits of the Gentiles against the brothers.
With all that, they stood there a long time, speaking boldly about the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and miracles to be done by their hands.
And the people of the city were divided: some were with the Jews, and others with the apostles.
But the Jews and the Gentiles, together with their rulers, hatched an attack to curse and stone them;
and they, realizing this, fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to all the surrounding land.
And there they preached the gospel.
And a certain man from Lystra was sitting, handicapped, lame from his mother's womb, and had never walked.
He heard Paul speak, who, when he fixed his eyes on him and saw that he had faith to be healed,
he said with a loud voice: Get up straight on your feet! And he jumped and walked.
Then the people, seeing what Paul had done, raised their voices, saying in a Lyonic language: Gods like men have descended on us!
And they called Barnabas Jupiter, and Paul Mercury, because this was the one who had the word.
And the priest of Jupiter, whose temple was before their city, brought bulls and garlands in front of the gates, and together with the crowd, he wanted to offer sacrifices.
And when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard it, they tore their clothes and threw themselves into the crowd, crying out,
saying, Men, why are you doing this? We are also men similar to you, who announce to you that from these vanities you may become the living God, who made heaven and earth, and the sea and all that is in them.
In ages past, he has allowed all nations to go their own ways;
although he did not leave himself without testimony, doing well, giving us rains from heaven and fruitful times, filling our hearts with sustenance and joy.
And even saying these things, they hardly pacified the people so that they did not offer them sacrifice.
Then some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came and persuaded the crowd, and having stoned Paul, they led him out of the city, thinking he was dead.
But as the disciples surrounded him, he got up and entered the city; and a day later, he set out with Barnabas to Derbe.
And after they had proclaimed the gospel in that city, and after having taught many, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium and to Antioch,
strengthening the spirits of the disciples, exhorting them to remain in the faith and saying: It is necessary that through many tribulations we enter the kingdom of God.
And having appointed them elders in each of the churches, and having prayed with fasting, they committed them to the Lord in whom they believed.
And passing through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And having preached the word in Perge, they went down to Athaliah;
and from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been entrusted to the grace of God for the work they had accomplished.
And having arrived, they gathered the church together and related how great things God had done with them, and how he had opened to the Gentiles the door of faith.
And they stayed there a long time with the disciples.