Being safe, we learned that the island was called Malta.
And the natives treated us with not a little humanity, because, lighting a fire, they welcomed us all, because of the falling rain and the cold.
Then Paul, having gathered some branches, threw them into the fire; and a viper, fleeing from the heat, caught it in his hand.
And when the natives saw the viper hanging from their hand, they said to each other: Certainly this man is a murderer, whom, although he has escaped from the sea, justice does not let live.
But he, shaking the viper in the fire, suffered no harm.
They were waiting for him to swell, or suddenly drop dead; but having waited long, and seeing that no harm was coming, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
In those places there were properties of the main man of the island, named Publius, who received us and hosted us in a friendly way for three days.
And it happened that Publio's father was in bed, sick with fever and dysentery. Paul came to see him and, after having prayed, laid his hands on him and healed him.
And when this was done, the others who had diseases on the island also came and were healed,
who also honored us with many attentions; and when we set sail, they provided us with the necessary things.
After three months, we set sail in an Alexandrian ship that had wintered on the island, which had Castor and Pollux as its standard.
And having arrived in Syracuse, we were there for three days.
From there, costing around, we arrived at Regio; and a day later, blowing the south wind, we arrived on the second day at Puteoli,
where, having found brothers, they begged us to stay with them for seven days. And then we got to Rome,
where, hearing from us the brothers, they came to meet us up to the Plaza de Apio and Las Tres Tabernas. And seeing them, Paul thanked God and took encouragement.
When we arrived in Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the military prefect; but Paul was allowed to live apart, with a soldier guarding him.
And it came to pass that three days later, Paul summoned the chiefs of the Jews, to whom, once they were assembled, he said to them: I, my brothers, having done nothing against the people or against the customs of our fathers, I have been delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
They, having examined me, wanted to release me, because there was no cause of death in me.
But the Jews opposed me, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, but not because he has to accuse my nation.
So for this reason I have called you to see you and speak to you, because for the hope of Israel I am subject with this chain.
Then they said to him: We have not received letters from Judea regarding you, nor has any of the brothers who has denounced or spoken evil about you come.
But we would like to hear from you what you think, because it is notorious for this sect that everywhere it is spoken against.
And having appointed him one day, many came to him to the inn, to whom he declared and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them about Jesus, both by the law of Moses and by the prophets, from morning to evening.
And some accepted what was said, but others did not believe.
And as they did not agree with each other, when they left, Paul said this word to them: Well the Holy Spirit spoke through the prophet Isaiah to our parents,
saying: Go to this people, and say to them: By ear you will hear, and you will not understand; And seeing ye shall see, and not perceive;
for the heart of this people has become thick, and with their ears they hear heavily, and they have closed their eyes; lest they see with the eyes, and hear with the ears, and understand from the heart, and be converted, and I will heal them.
Know then that this salvation from God is sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear.
And having said this, the Jews left, having a great discussion among themselves.
And Paul stayed two whole years in a rented house, and he received all who came to him,
preaching the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ freely and without hindrance.