The high priest then said: Is this so?
And he said, Men, brothers and fathers, hear: The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, being in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran,
And he said to him: Get out of your land and from your relatives, and come to the land that I will show you.
Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran; And from there, his father dead, God brought him to this land, in which you now dwell.
And he did not give him an inheritance in it, not even to settle a foot, but he promised to give it to him and to his descendants after him, although he did not have a son yet.
And God spoke thus to him: That their descendants would be foreigners in another's land, and that they would reduce them to servitude and mistreat them for four hundred years.
But I will judge, God said, the nation of which they will be servants; and after this they will go out and serve me in this place.
And he gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham begot Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac to Jacob, and Jacob to the twelve patriarchs.
And the patriarchs, moved by envy, sold Joseph to Egypt; but God was with him,
and delivered him from all his tribulations, and gave him grace and wisdom before Pharaoh king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his house.
Then came famine in all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great tribulation; and our parents could not find food.
And when Jacob heard that there was wheat in Egypt, he sent our parents the first time.
And in the second, Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and the lineage of Joseph was revealed to Pharaoh.
And Joseph sent, and brought his father Jacob and all his kinsmen, in number of seventy-five.
So Jacob went down to Egypt, where he and our parents died,
who were transferred to Shechem and placed in the grave that Abraham had bought at a price for money from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
But as the time of the promise approached, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
until another king rose up in Egypt who did not know Joseph.
This king, using cunning with our people, mistreated our parents, in order to expose their children to death so they would not live.
At that same time Moses was born, and was pleasing to God; and he was raised three months in his father's house.
And having been abandoned, Pharaoh's daughter picked him up and raised him as her son.
And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was powerful in his words and deeds.
And when he had reached the age of forty, the desire to visit his brothers, the children of Israel, came to his heart.
And when he saw one who was mistreated, he defended him, and wounding the Egyptian, avenged the injured.
He thought that his brothers understood that God was going to give them freedom by his hand, but they had not understood it that way.
And the next day, one of them quarreling, he presented himself and tried to put them at peace, saying: Men, you are brothers, why are you mistreating each other?
Then the one who mistreated his neighbor pushed him, saying: Who has made you ruler and judge over us?
Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?
On hearing these words, Moses fled and lived as a foreigner in the land of Midian, where he fathered two sons.
And after forty years, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning bush.
Then Moses, looking, marveled at the vision; And as he drew near to look, the voice of the Lord came to him:
I am the God of your parents, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. But Moses, trembling, did not dare to look.
And the Lord said to him, Take off your shoes from your feet, for the place where you are is holy ground.
I have certainly seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning and have come down to deliver them. Now therefore come, I will send you to Egypt.
This Moses, whom they had rejected, saying: Who made you ruler and judge? This God sent as ruler and deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
He brought them out, having done wonders and miracles in the land of Egypt, and in the Red Sea, and in the desert for forty years.
This is the Moses who said to the children of Israel: Prophet like me the Lord your God will raise you up from among your brothers; you will listen to him.
This is that Moses who was in the congregation in the desert with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our parents, and who received words of life to give us;
whom our parents did not want to obey, but rejected and turned their hearts to Egypt,
Saying to Aaron, Make us gods to go before us, because we do not know what happened to this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt.
And then they made a calf, and offered sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of his hands.
And God turned away from them and gave them up to serve the army of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets: Did you offer me victims and sacrifices in the desert for forty years, O house of Israel?
Rather, you brought the tabernacle of Molech and the star of your god Renfán, figures that you made to worship them. So I will take you beyond Babylon.
Our parents had the tabernacle of the testimony in the desert, as God had commanded when he told Moses to do it according to the model he had seen.
Which, having received it, our parents also brought with Joshua when they took possession of the land of the Gentiles, whom God expelled from the presence of our parents until the days of David,
who found grace before God and asked to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
But Solomon built him a house.
Although the Most High does not live in temples made by hand, as the prophet says:
Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool. What house will you build me? Says the Lord; Or what is the place of my rest?
Did not my hand do all these things?
Stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears! You always resist the Holy Spirit; like your parents, so too you.
Which of the prophets did your parents not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the Righteous One, of whom you have now been deliverers and murderers;
you who received the law by order of angels and did not keep it.
And hearing these things, their hearts were furious and their teeth gnashed against him.
But Stephen, being filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his eyes on heaven, saw the glory of God, and Jesus who was at the right hand of God,
And he said: Behold, I see the heavens open and the Son of Man who is at the right hand of God!
Then they, with loud voices, covered their ears and lashed out against him;
And throwing him out of the city, they stoned him. And the witnesses put their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul.
And while they stoned Esteban, he invoked and said: Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
And kneeling down, he cried out with a loud voice: Lord, do not take this sin into account. And having said this, he slept.