And when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place;
and suddenly, a roar came from heaven like a strong wind blowing, which filled the whole house where they were sitting;
and distributed tongues appeared to them, like fire, that settled on each one of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other languages, as the Spirit gave them to speak.
Then there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, pious men, of all the nations under heaven.
And having made this noise, the crowd gathered; and they were confused, because each one heard them speak in their own language.
And they were astonished and amazed, saying, Behold, are not all these who speak Galileans?
How, then, do we each hear them speak in our language in which we were born?
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites and those who inhabit Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
in Phrygia and in Pamphylia, in Egypt and in the regions of Libya that are near Cyrene, and Roman visitors, both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speak in our tongues the wonders of God.
And they were all stunned and perplexed, saying to each other: What does this mean?
But others, mocking, said: They are drunk.
Then Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and spoke to them, saying: Jewish men and all who live in Jerusalem, this is well known to you, and hear my words.
Because these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is the third hour of the day;
but this is what was said by the prophet Joel:
And it will come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters will prophesy; and your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams;
and verily on my servants and on my handmaids in those days I will pour out of my Spirit, and they will prophesy.
And I will show wonders above in heaven and signs below on earth, blood and fire and vapor of smoke;
the sun will become darkness and the moon blood, before the day of the Lord comes, great and glorious;
and everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Hear these words, Israelite men: Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved by God among you with wonders, and wonders and signs that God did among you through him, as you also know;
to this one, delivered by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you seized and killed by the hands of the wicked, crucifying him;
whom God raised up, let loose the pains of death, because it was impossible for him to be retained by it.
Because David says of him: I always saw the Lord before me; Because he is at my right hand, I will not be moved.
Wherefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; and even my flesh will rest in hope,
because you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your Saint to see corruption.
You made me know the ways of life; you will fill me with joy with your presence.
My brothers, you can freely tell us about the patriarch David, who died and was buried, and his grave is with us to this day.
But being a prophet and knowing that with an oath God had sworn to him that from the fruit of his loins, as for the flesh, he would raise up the Christ who would sit on his throne,
seeing him before, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in Hades, nor his flesh saw corruption.
This Jesus God raised up, of which all of us are witnesses.
So, exalted at the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out what you see and hear.
For David did not go up to heaven, but he himself says: The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand,
Until I make your enemies your footstool.
Know, therefore, most certainly the whole house of Israel, that this Jesus whom you crucified, God has made Lord and Christ.
When they heard this, they were heartbroken and said to Peter and to the other apostles: Men, brothers, what shall we do?
And Peter said to them: Repent and be baptized each one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For it is the promise to you, and to your children and to all who are far away; for all the Lord our God will call.
And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying: Be saved from this wicked generation.
So those who received his word were baptized; and about three thousand people were added to them that day.
And they persevered in the apostles' doctrine, and in brotherhood, and in breaking of bread and in prayers.
And every person had fear, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common;
and they sold their possessions and their goods, and distributed it to everyone, according to the needs of each one.
And they continued unanimously every day in the temple and, breaking bread in the houses, they ate together with joy and with simplicity of heart,
praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church every day those who were being saved.