After these things, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
And he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with Priscilla, his wife (because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome), and went to them;
and since he was of the same trade, he stayed with them, and they worked together, because their trade was to make tents.
And he argued in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks.
And when Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul, prompted by the Spirit, testified to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
But opposing and blaspheming them, he said to them, shaking their clothes: Your blood be on your own head; I am clean; From now on I will go to the Gentiles.
And having left there, he entered the house of one named Righteous, God-fearing, who was next to the synagogue.
And Crispus, the chief of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians, upon hearing, believed and were baptized.
Then the Lord said to Paul at night, in vision: Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent,
Because I am with you, and no one can harm you, because I have a lot of people in this city.
And he stood there a year and six months, teaching them the word of God.
And Gallio being proconsul of Achaia, the Jews mutually agreed against Paul and took him to court,
saying: This persuades men to honor God against the law.
And when Paul began to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were some great offense or crime, O Jews, according to law, I would tolerate you;
But if it is a matter of words, and of names and of your law, you can see it, because I do not want to be judge of these things.
And he threw them out of the court.
Then all the Greeks, taking Sosthenes, chief of the synagogue, beat him before the tribunal; but Gallio did not care about it.
And Paul, having still spent many days there, then said goodbye to the brothers and sailed to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila, having shaved their heads at Cencrea, because he had made a vow.
And he came to Ephesus and left them there; and he, entering the synagogue, argued with the Jews,
who begged him to stay with them longer; but he did not agree,
but he said goodbye to them, saying: It is necessary that in any case I keep the coming festival in Jerusalem; but again I will come back to you, if God wants. And sailed from Ephesus.
And having arrived at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem; and after greeting the church, he went down to Antioch.
And after being there for some time, he set out, touring the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Then a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, powerful in the Scriptures.
He had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught diligently the things that are of the Lord, although he only knew the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue; but when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained to him more exactly the way of God.
And wanting to go to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to receive him; and when he got there, it was of great benefit to those who by grace had believed,
for with great vehemence he publicly refuted the Jews, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.