There was in Caesarea a man named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort called the Italian,
Godly and God-fearing with his whole house, who gave alms to the Jewish people and prayed to God continually.
At about the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God who entered where he was and said to him: Cornelius.
Staring at him and terrified, Cornelius said: What do you want, Lord? And he said to him: Your prayers and alms have ascended as a memorial before God.
Now dispatch some men to Joppa, and send for a man named Simon, who is also called Peter.
He is staying with a tanner named Simon, whose house is by the sea.
And after the angel speaking to him was gone, Cornelius called two of the servants and a godly soldier who were constantly serving him,
and after explaining everything, he sent them to Joppa.
The next day, while they were on the road and were approaching the city, Pedro went up to the roof to pray at about the sixth hour.
He was hungry and wanted to eat; but while they prepared something to eat, an ecstasy came over him;
and he saw * the open sky and an object like a great canvas descending, lowered to the earth by the four points;
there were in it all kinds of quadrupeds and reptiles of the earth, and birds of the sky.
And he heard a voice: Get up, Peter, kill and eat.
But Peter said: No way, Lord, because I have never eaten anything impure or unclean.
Again, for the second time, a voice came to him: What God has cleansed, do not call it impure.
And this happened three times, and immediately the canvas was picked up to heaven.
While Peter was puzzled thinking about what the vision he had seen would mean, behold, the men who had been sent by Cornelius, after asking about Simon's house, appeared at the door;
and calling, they asked if Simon, who was also called Peter, was staying there.
And while Peter meditated on the vision, the Spirit said to him: Look, three men are looking for you.
Get up, then, come down and do not hesitate to accompany them, because I have sent them.
Peter went down to where the men were, and said to them: Behold, I am the one you seek; What is the cause for which you have come?
And they said: Cornelius the centurion, a righteous and God-fearing man, and who is highly esteemed by the entire nation of the Jews, was ordered by a holy angel to make you come to his house to hear your words.
Then he invited them in and hosted them. The next day he got up and went with them, and some of Joppa's brothers accompanied him.
The next day he entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them and had gathered his relatives and close friends.
And it came to pass that when Peter was about to enter, Cornelius went out to meet him, and fell down at his feet, worshiped him.
But Peter raised him up, saying: Stand up; I'm a man too.
And conversing with him, he went in and found * many people gathered.
And he said to them: You know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or visit a foreigner, but God has shown me that I must not call any man impure or unclean;
therefore, when I was called, I came without objection. I ask, then, for what reason have you sent me to call?
And Cornelius said: At this same hour, four days ago, I was praying at my house at the ninth hour; and behold, a man in shining garments stood before me,
and said *: "Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your works of charity have been remembered before God.
Send therefore Joppa, and call Simon, who is also called Peter; he is staying at Simon the tanner's house, by the sea. "
Therefore I sent for you instantly, and you have done well to come. Now therefore we are all here present before God, to hear all that the Lord has commanded you.
Then Peter, opening his mouth, said: I certainly now understand that God is no respecter of persons,
but in every nation whoever fears him and does what is right, is accepted.
The message that He sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, that He is Lord of all;
You yourselves know what happened in all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism that John preached.
You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil; because God was with him.
And we are witnesses to all the things that he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. And they also killed him, hanging him on a cross.
He raised this God on the third day and made him manifest,
not to all the people, but to the witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God, that is, to us who ate and drank with Him after he rose from the dead.
And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to solemnly testify that this Jesus is the one God has appointed as Judge of the living and the dead.
Of this all the prophets bear witness, that by his name, everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins.
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the message.
And all the believers who were of the circumcision, who had come with Peter, were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had also been poured out on the Gentiles,
for they heard them speak in tongues and exalt God. Then Pedro said:
Can anyone deny the water so that those who have received the Holy Spirit are baptized the same as we are?
And he commanded that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. So they asked him to stay with them for a few days.
