"Brothers and fathers, now hear my defense before you."
When they heard that Paul spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more silent. Then he said:
—I am a Jewish man, born in Tarsus of Cilicia but raised in this city, instructed at the feet of Gamaliel in the strict observance of the law of our parents, being jealous of God as all of you are today.
I pursued this Path to death, taking prisoners and delivering men and women to jails,
as even the high priest is my witness, and all the elders from whom I also received letters for the brothers. And I went to Damascus to bring prisoners to Jerusalem to those who were there, to be punished.
But it happened [to] me, when I was traveling and arriving near Damascus, at about noon, that suddenly a great light from heaven surrounded me with brilliance.
I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?"
Then I replied: "Who are you, Lord?". And he said to me: "I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting."
In truth, those who were with me saw the light [b], but did not understand the voice of the one who spoke to me.
I said, "What shall I do, Lord?" And the Lord said to me, "Get up and go to Damascus, and there you will be told all that you are commanded to do."
"Because I could not see because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me, and I entered Damascus.
Then a certain Ananias, a godly man according to the law, who had a good testimony of all the Jews who lived there,
He came to me and stood up and said: "Brother Saulo, get your sight." And I saw him at that moment.
And he said to me: "The God of our parents has appointed you beforehand so that you know his will and see the Righteous One, and hear the voice of his mouth.
Because you will be his witness before all men of what you have seen and heard.
Now why do you stop? Get up and get baptized, and wash your sins, calling on his name. "
"Then when I returned to Jerusalem, while praying in the temple, it happened that I fell into ecstasy
and I saw the Lord saying to me: "Hurry up and leave Jerusalem immediately, because they will not receive your testimony about me."
And I said: "Lord, they know well that I was imprisoning and flogging those who believed in you in all the synagogues;
and when the blood of your witness Esteban was spilled, I was also present, approved of his death and kept the clothes of those who killed him "[c].
But he said to me, "Go, because I will send you away to the Gentiles."
They listened to him even this word. Then they raised their voices saying: "Take such a man out of the ground, because it is not convenient for him to live!"
As they cried out, threw their clothes and put dust in the air,
The tribune ordered that Paul be brought into the fortress and ordered that he be subjected to interrogation by flogging, to find out why they were calling out against him like this.
But as soon as they stretched it with the straps, Pablo said to the centurion who was present: "Is it lawful for you to whip a Roman citizen who has not been convicted?"
When the centurion heard this, he went and informed the tribune saying: "What are you going to do?" Well this man is Roman.
The tribune came and said, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" And he said, "Yes."
The tribune replied: —I achieved this citizenship with a large sum. Then Pablo said: —But I have it by birth.
So, immediately those who were going to question him left him. The tribune was also afraid when he learned that Paul was a Roman citizen and that he had been bound.
The next day, wanting to know with certainty the true reason why he was accused by the Jews, he untied him and ordered to gather all the main priests and all the Sanhedrin of them. And taking Paul out, he presented him before them.