In the first treatise, O Theophilus, I have spoken of all the things that Jesus began to do and to teach,
until the day he was received upstairs, after having given commandments by the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen;
to whom also, after having suffered, he appeared alive with many indubitable tests, appearing to them for forty days and speaking to them of the kingdom of God.
And being together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, you heard from me.
Because John indeed baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit within not many days after these.
Then those who had gathered asked him, saying, Lord, will you restore the kingdom to Israel at this time?
And he said to them: It is not for you to know the times or the occasions that the Father put in his sole authority;
but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and in Samaria and to the ends of the earth.
And having said these things, when they saw it, he was lifted up; and he received a cloud that hid him from his eyes.
And while they were with their eyes fixed on heaven, while he was leaving, behold, two men dressed in white stood beside them,
those who also said to them: "Galilean men, why are you looking at the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken up from heaven to you, will come as you have seen him go to heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olives, which is near Jerusalem, on the way to a Sabbath day.
And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where Peter and James, and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot and Judas brother of James were staying.
All of these persevered unanimously in prayer and supplication, with the women, and with Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brothers.
And in those days, Peter stood up among the brothers (and the group was about one hundred and twenty in number) and said:
Men, brothers, it was agreed that the Scripture be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit previously said through the mouth of David, about Judas, who was the guide of those who arrested Jesus,
the one who was counted on us and had part in this ministry.
This man, therefore, acquired a field with the wages of his iniquity, and falling headlong, he burst in half, and all his entrails spilled.
And it was notorious to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, in such a way that that field was called in its own language, Acéldama, which means, Field of Blood.
For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let your room be made desolate, and there be none to dwell in it; and: Take another your trade.
It is necessary, therefore, that of these men who have been with us all the time that the Lord Jesus entered and left among us,
starting from the baptism of John until the day when he was received from among us above, one is made a witness with us of his resurrection.
And they pointed to two: José, called Barsabás, whose nickname was Just, and Matías.
And praying, they said: You, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which of these two you have chosen,
so that he may take up the office of this ministry and apostolate, from which Judas fell by transgression, to go to his own place.
And they cast lots, and luck fell on Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.