Then the high priest asked, "Is this so?"
And he replied, "Brothers and parents, listen." The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
and he said to him: "Get out of your land and your relatives and go to the land that I will show you" [a].
So he left the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran. After his father died, God moved him from there to this land in which you now live [b].
But he gave him no inheritance in it, not even to settle his foot; although he promised to give it to him and his descendants after him [c], even though he had no son.
Thus God told him that their descendants would be foreigners in another's land and that they would reduce them to slavery and mistreat them for four hundred years [d].
"But I will judge the nation they serve," said God, "and after this they will go forth and worship me in this place" [e].
God gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham begot Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day [f]. So did Isaac to Jacob, and Jacob to the twelve patriarchs.
"The patriarchs, moved by envy, sold Joseph to Egypt [g]. But God was with him;
He delivered him from all his tribulations and gave him grace and wisdom in the presence of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him governor over Egypt and over all his house [h].
Then came famine and great tribulation in all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and our parents found no food.
But when Jacob heard that there was wheat in Egypt, he sent our parents the first time [i].
The second time, José made himself known to his brothers [j]. Thus the lineage of Joseph was made known to Pharaoh.
And Joseph sent and brought his father Jacob and all his family, which were seventy-five people [k].
So Jacob went down to Egypt, where he and our parents ended their lives.
And they were taken to Shechem and placed in the tomb that Abraham bought at the price of silver, from the sons of Hamor in Shechem [l].
"As the time of the promise approached, which God had assured Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt
until another king rose up in Egypt who did not know Joseph [m].
With cunning this king took advantage of our people and mistreated our parents, making them expose their babies to death so they would not survive.
At that time Moses [n] was born and was pleasing to God. He was raised three months in his father's house;
But when he was exposed to death, Pharaoh's daughter picked him up and raised him as her son [o].
Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was powerful in his words and deeds.
"When he was forty, it came to his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
Seeing that one was mistreated, he defended him, and by killing the Egyptian, he avenged the oppressed.
He thought that his brothers would understand that God would give them liberation by his hand, but they did not understand it.
The next day, he introduced himself to some who were fighting and tried to put them at peace saying: "Men, they are brothers! Why do they mistreat each other?"
Then, the one who mistreated his neighbor rejected him saying: Who has made you governor and judge over us?
Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? [P].
Hearing this word, Moses fled and lived in exile in the land of Midian, where he fathered two sons [q].
"Forty years later, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the fire flame of a bush [r].
When Moses saw him, he was amazed at the vision; but as he approached to look, the voice of the Lord came to him:
"I am the God of your parents, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." But Moses, trembling, did not dare to look.
The Lord said to him: "Take off your sandals from your feet, because the place where you are is holy ground.
I have watched closely the affliction of my people in Egypt. I have heard their groaning and have come down to deliver them. Now therefore come, and I will send you to Egypt "[s].
"This same Moses, whom they had rejected saying, Who made you governor and judge? [T], God sent him as governor and redeemer, by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
He brought them out, doing wonders and signs in Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the desert for forty years [u].
This is the same Moses who said to the children of Israel: God will raise up a prophet like me from among his brothers [v].
This is the one who was in the congregation in the desert with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our parents, and the one who received words of life to give us.
Our parents did not want to be obedient to him; rather, they rejected him and in their hearts turned back to Egypt,
Saying to Aaron, Make gods for us to go before us; Because we do not know what has happened to this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt.
So in those days they made a calf and offered sacrifice to the idol, and they rejoiced in the works of their hands.
But God turned away from them and gave them up to worship the army of heaven, as it is written in the book of the Prophets: Did they offer me victims and sacrifices in the desert for forty years, O house of Israel?
Rather, they brought the tabernacle of Molech and the star of their god Renfán, the images they made to worship them. Therefore I will transport you beyond Babylon [x].
"In the wilderness, our fathers had the tabernacle of witness, as God had commanded, who commanded Moses to do so according to the pattern he had seen [and].
Having received the tabernacle, our parents, along with Joshua, introduced it into the possession of the nations that God expelled from the presence of our parents, until the days of David.
He found grace before God and asked to provide a tabernacle for the God of Jacob [z].
But Solomon built him a house.
"However, the Most High does not live in houses made by hand [aa], as the prophet says:
Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool. What house will they build for me? Says the Lord. What will be the place of my rest?
Did not my hand make all these things? [Ab].
"Hard-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears! You always resist the Holy Spirit. Like your parents, so do you.
Which of the prophets did their parents not persecute? And they killed those who announced in advance the coming of the Just. And now they have become their traitors and murderers.
You who have received the law by order of the angels, and did not keep it!
Hearing these things, they raged in their hearts and gnashed their teeth against him.
But Stephen, filled with the Holy Spirit and with his eyes fixed on heaven, saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God.
And he said, "Behold, I see the heavens open and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!"
Then they cried out with a loud voice, covered their ears, and rushed over him.
They threw him out of the city and stoned him. The witnesses left their dresses at the feet of a young man named Saul.
And they stoned Esteban, while he invoked saying: —Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!
On his knees he cried out with a loud voice: "Lord, do not take this sin into account for them!" And having said this, he slept.