After this Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
And he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had just arrived from Italy with his wife Priscilla, since Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. It was to them,
and since he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and they worked together, since their trade was to make tents.
And he argued in the synagogue every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.
When Silas and Timothy descended from Macedonia, Paul devoted himself entirely to preaching the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
But when they opposed him and blasphemed him, he shook his clothes and said: Your blood be on your heads; I am clean; From now on I will go to the Gentiles.
And leaving from there, he went to the house of a man named Titus Justus, who worshiped God, whose house was next to the synagogue.
And Crispus, the synagogue officer, believed in the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians, upon hearing, believed and were baptized.
And through a vision during the night, the Lord said to Paul: Do not be afraid, keep talking and do not be silent;
because I am with you, and nobody will attack you to harm you, because I have a lot of people in this city.
And he stayed there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
But being Gallio proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up against Paul and brought him before the court,
saying: This persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.
And when Paul was going to speak, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were a matter of injustice or a depraved crime, O Jews, I would tolerate you, as would be reasonable.
But if they are questions of words and names, and of your own law, there you; I am not willing to be a judge of these things.
And he threw them out of the court.
Then they all seized Sosthenes, the synagogue officer, and beat him in front of the court, but Gallio ignored any of this.
And Paul, after staying many more days, said goodbye to the brothers and sailed to Syria, and with him went Priscilla and Aquila. And in Cencrea he had his hair cut because he had made a vow.
They reached Ephesus and he left them there. And when he entered the synagogue, he argued with the Jews.
When they begged him to stay longer, he did not consent,
but he took leave of them, saying: I will come to you again, if God wants. And set sail from Ephesus.
Upon landing at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem to greet the church, and then went down to Antioch.
And after spending some time there, he went out, visiting the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Then a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, and who was powerful in the Scriptures.
He had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught exactly the things concerning Jesus, although he only knew the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained the way of God more accurately.
When he wanted to pass to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive him; and when he arrived, he greatly helped those who by grace had believed,
because he vigorously refuted the Jews in public, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.
