And one day Peter and John went up to the temple at the ninth hour, that of prayer.
And there was a man, lame from birth, who was brought and put daily to the door of the temple called the Beautiful, to ask alms of those who entered the temple.
This, seeing Peter and John who were going to enter the temple, asked them for alms.
Then Pedro, together with Juan, fixing his eyes on him, said: Look at us!
And he looked at them closely, expecting to receive something from them.
But Pedro said: I do not have silver or gold, but what I have, I give you: in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, come on!
And taking hold of his right hand, he raised it up; instantly her feet and ankles gained strength,
and with a leap he stood up and walked. He entered the temple with them walking, jumping, and praising God.
All the people saw him walk and praise God,
and they recognized that he was the same one who sat at the door of the temple, the Beautiful, begging for alms, and they were filled with wonder and admiration for what had happened to him.
And while he was holding Peter and John, all the people, astonished, ran to the porch called Solomon, where they were.
When Peter saw this, he said to the people, "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this, or why do you look at us like this, as if by our own power or pity we had made him walk?
The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered and repudiated in the presence of Pilate, when he had resolved to set him free.
But you repudiated the Holy and Righteous One, and asked that a murderer be granted you,
and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And by faith in his name, it is the name of Jesus that has strengthened this man whom you see and know; and the faith that comes through him has given him this perfect healing in the presence of all of you.
And now, brothers, I know that you acted out of ignorance, the same as your rulers.
But God has thus fulfilled what he announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets: that his Christ should suffer.
Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshment may come from the presence of the Lord,
and He send Jesus, the Christ appointed beforehand for you,
whom heaven must receive until the day of the restoration of all things, about which God spoke from the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient times.
Moses said: THE LORD GOD WILL RAISE YOU A PROPHET LIKE ME FROM AMONG YOUR BROTHERS; YOU WILL PAY ATTENTION in everything I say.
And it will happen that everyone who does not pay attention to that prophet will be totally destroyed from among the people.
And likewise all the prophets who have spoken from Samuel and his successors onward, also announced these days.
You are the children of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your parents, saying to Abraham: AND IN YOUR SEED ALL THE FAMILIES OF THE EARTH WILL BE BLESSED.
For you in the first place, God, having resurrected his Servant, has sent him to bless you, in order to separate each one of you from your iniquities.