And Agrippa said to Paul: You are allowed to speak on your behalf. Then Pablo, extending his hand, began his defense:
Regarding all that the Jews accuse me of, I consider myself fortunate, King Agrippa, to be able to present my defense before you today,
above all, because you are an expert in all the customs and controversies among the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
Well, all the Jews know my life from my youth, which from the beginning passed between those of my people and in Jerusalem;
since they have long known about me, if they are willing to testify, that I lived as a Pharisee, according to the strictest sect of our religion.
And now I am on trial for the hope of God's promise to our parents:
that our twelve tribes hope to achieve by faithfully serving God night and day. And for this hope, O king, I am accused by the Jews.
Why is it considered incredible among you that God raises the dead?
I certainly believed that I must do many evils against the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
And this is precisely what I did in Jerusalem; I not only locked many of the saints in jails with the authority received from the chief priests, but also, when they were sentenced to death, I cast my vote against them.
And punishing them frequently in all the synagogues, he sought to compel them to blaspheme; and greatly enraged against them, he continued to persecute them even in foreign cities.
Busy in this, when he went to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests,
At noon, O King, on the way, I saw a light from the sky brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who traveled with me.
And after we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you chasing me? It is hard for you to kick against the stinger."
I then said: "Who are you, Lord?". And the Lord said: "I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
But get up and stand up; because I have appeared to you in order to designate you as minister and witness, not only of the things that you have seen, but also of those in which I will appear to you;
Delivering you from the Jewish people and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
that you may open their eyes that they may turn from darkness to light, and from Satan's dominion to God, that they may receive, through faith in me, the forgiveness of sins and inheritance among those who have been sanctified. "
Therefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
but he announced, first of all to those who were in Damascus and also in Jerusalem, and later throughout the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
For this reason, some Jews arrested me in the temple and tried to kill me.
So having received help from God, I continue to this day witnessing to both small and great, declaring nothing more than what the prophets and Moses said would happen:
that the Christ was to suffer, and that by reason of his resurrection from the dead, He was to be the first to proclaim light to both the Jewish people and the Gentiles.
While Paul was saying this in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice: Paul, you are crazy! Your much knowing is making you lose your mind!
But Paul said *: I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I speak words of truth and sanity.
Because the king understands these things, and I also speak to him with confidence, because I am convinced that he does not ignore any of this; Well this has not been done in secret.
King Agrippa, do you believe in the prophets? I know what you think.
And Agrippa replied to Paul: In a short time you will persuade me to become a Christian.
And Paul said: God wish that, whether it be in a short time or in a long time, not only you, but also all who hear me today, become as I am, except for these chains.
Then the king, the governor, Berenice, and those who were sitting with them got up,
and as they withdrew, they spoke among themselves, saying: This man has done * nothing worthy of death or imprisonment.
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man could be released if he had not appealed to Caesar.
