After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
And having found a Jew named Aquilas, a native of Pontus, newly arrived from Italy with Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had ordered that all Jews be expelled from Rome), Paul went to them.
Since they were of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, since his trade was to make shops.
And he argued in the synagogue every Saturday and persuaded Jews and Greeks.
When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was dedicated exclusively to the exposition of the word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
But as they contradicted and blasphemed him, he shook his clothes and said: "Your blood be on your head! I am clean! From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
He moved from there and entered the house of a man named Titus Justo, who was God-fearing, and whose house was next to the synagogue.
Crispus, the head of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house. And many of the Corinthians who heard, believed, and were baptized.
Then the Lord said to Paul at night, through a vision: "Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent;
for I am with you, and no one will lay a hand on you to harm you; because I have a lot of people in this city. "
Paul stayed there for a year and six months, teaching them the word of God.
As Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews by mutual agreement rose up against Paul and took him to court,
saying, "This persuades men to honor God against the law!"
When Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: —If it was a matter of a grievance or a huge crime, O Jews, according to the law I would tolerate them.
But since it is a matter of words, names and its law, see for yourselves. I don't want to be judge of these things.
And kicked them out of court.
Then they all took Sosthenes, the head of the synagogue, and beat him before the tribunal, and Gallio none of these things mattered to him.
But Paul, having stopped there many more days, said goodbye to the brothers, and was sailing towards Syria; and with him went Priscilla and Aquilas. In Cencrea he shaved his head because he had made a vow.
They reached Ephesus, and he left them there. And he entered the synagogue and argued with the Jews.
But even though they asked him to stay longer, he didn't agree,
but he said goodbye and said [a]: "Again I will come back to you, if God wants." And sailed from Ephesus.
Having arrived at Caesarea, and after going up and greeting the church, he descended to Antioch.
And after having been there for some time, he went out to visit the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Then a certain Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent and powerful man in the Scriptures.
He had been instructed in the Way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught exactly about Jesus, although he knew only the baptism of John.
He began to preach boldly in the synagogue, and when Priscilla and Aquilas heard him, they took him aside and explained the Way of God more accurately.
Since he wanted to travel to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to receive him. When he got there, it was of great benefit to those who through grace had believed;
for he vigorously refuted the Jews in public, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.