It also reached Derbe and Lystra. And there was a certain disciple named Timothy, the son of a believing Jewish woman, but of a Greek father,
of which the brothers who were in Lystra and Iconium spoke highly.
Paul wanted him to go with him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews in those regions, because they all knew that his father was Greek.
And as they passed through the cities, they handed over the agreements made by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem, to be observed.
So the churches were confirmed in the faith, and daily grew in number.
They passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been prevented by the Holy Spirit from speaking the word in Asia,
and when they reached Misia, they tried to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow it.
And passing through Misia, they descended to Troas.
At night Paul was shown a vision: a man from Macedonia stood, pleading with him and saying: Come to Macedonia and help us.
When he had the vision, we immediately tried to go to Macedonia, convinced that God had called us to announce the gospel to them.
So, setting sail from Troas, we sailed directly to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis,
and from there to Philippi, which is a main city in the province of Macedonia, a Roman colony; in this city we stay for several days.
And on the Sabbath we went outside the door, on the bank of a river, where we thought there would be a place of prayer; we sat down and started talking to the women who had gathered.
And I was listening to a certain woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, seller of purple cloth, who worshiped God; and the Lord opened his heart to receive what Paul said.
When she and her family were baptized, she begged us, saying: If you judge that I am faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay there. And persuaded us to go.
And it happened that while we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination, who gave her masters great profits, by guessing.
She, following Paul and us, cried out saying: These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation.
And this he did for many days; But displeasing this to Paul, he turned and said to the spirit: I order you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to come out of her! And it came out at that very moment.
But when their masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them to the plaza, before the authorities;
and after presenting them to the superior magistrates, they said: These men, being Jews, stir up our city,
and they proclaim customs that we are not allowed to accept or observe, since we are Romans.
The crowd rose up against them, and the senior magistrates, tearing their clothes, ordered them to be whipped with rods.
And after giving them many lashes, they threw them in jail, ordering the jailer to keep them safely;
who, having received that order, threw them into the inner dungeon and secured their feet in the stocks.
At around midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang hymns to God, and the prisoners listened to them.
Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; instantly all the doors were opened and everyone's chains were released.
When the jailer woke up and saw all the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was going to kill himself, believing that the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying: Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here.
So he asked for light and rushed inside, and trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas,
and after taking them out, he said: Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
They answered: Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you and all your house will be saved.
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
And he took them at that same hour of the night, and washed their wounds; He was baptized right away, he and all his.
Taking them home, he fed them, and he rejoiced greatly at having believed in God with all his own.
When daylight came, the senior magistrates dispatched their officers, saying: Release those men.
The jailer communicated these words to Paul, saying: The superior magistrates have ordered that you be released. So go out now and go in peace.
But Paul said to them: Although we are Roman citizens, they have flogged us publicly without judgment and have thrown us in jail; And now they release us in secret? No way! That they themselves come to take us out.
And the officers reported this to the senior magistrates, and upon learning that they were Romans, they were afraid.
So they came and begged them, and after taking them out, they begged them to leave the city.
When they got out of prison, they went to Lidia's house, and when they saw the brothers, they comforted them and they left.
