The apostles and brothers in Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended against him,
saying: —You entered the house of uncircumcised men and ate with them!
Then Peter began to tell them in order, saying:
—I was praying in the city of Joppa, and I saw in ecstasy a vision: an object that descended like a great canvas, lowered from the sky at its four ends, and reached where I was.
When I looked at him, I saw and saw quadrupeds from the earth, wild beasts and reptiles, and birds from the sky.
Then I also heard a voice saying to me: "Get up, Pedro; kill and eat."
But I said, "No way, Lord! Because nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth."
Then the voice from heaven answered a second time: "What God has purified you do not have in common."
This happened three times, and everything was taken back to heaven.
And behold, three men came at once to the house where we were, sent to me from Caesarea;
and the Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. These six brothers also went with me, and we entered the man's house.
He told us how he had seen an angel in his house who stood up and said to him: "Send Joppa and make Simon come, whose surname is Peter.
He will speak to you words by which you will be saved, you and your whole house. "
When I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them as well as on us at first.
Then I remembered the Lord's saying, when he said: "John certainly baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit" [a].
So if God gave the same gift to them as well as to us who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to be able to resist God?
Hearing these things, they calmed down and glorified God saying, "So also to the Gentiles God has given repentance for life!"
Meanwhile, those who had been scattered because of the tribulation that occurred in Stephen's time [b] went to Phenicia, Cyprus and Antioch, without communicating the word to anyone, except only to the Jews.
But among them were some men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who entered Antioch and spoke to the Greeks announcing the good news that Jesus is Lord.
The hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number who believed were converted to the Lord.
News of these things reached the ears of the church that was in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to go to Antioch.
When he came and saw the grace of God, he rejoiced and exhorted everyone to remain with the Lord in a firm heart;
because Barnabas was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and faith. And many people were added to the Lord.
Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul, and when he found him, he took him to Antioch.
And it happened that they met a whole year with the church and taught many people. And the disciples were called Christians for the first time in Antioch.
In those days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them, named Agabus, rose up and hinted by the Spirit that a great famine was going to occur in all the inhabited earth. (This happened in Claudio's time).
Then the disciples, each according to what he had, decided to send an offering to minister to the brothers who lived in Judea.
And they did so, sending him to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.