Festus, then, three days after arriving in the province, went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
And the chief priests and the chiefs of the Jews stood before him against Paul; and they begged him,
asking against him, as a grace, that he should bring him to Jerusalem, preparing a trap to kill him on the way.
But Festus replied that Paul was guarded at Caesarea, where he himself would shortly depart.
Those of you who can, he said, come down with me, and if there is any crime in this man, accuse him.
And stopping among them no more than eight or ten days, coming to Caesarea, the next day he sat in the tribunal and ordered that Paul be brought.
When he arrived, the Jews who had come from Jerusalem surrounded him, presenting against Paul many and serious accusations, which they could not prove;
Paul defended himself, saying: Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple nor against Caesar have I sinned in anything.
But Festus, wanting to ingratiate himself with the Jews, responding to Paul, said: Do you want to go up to Jerusalem and there be judged about these things before me?
And Paul said: I am before Caesar's court, where I must be judged. I have done no harm to the Jews, as you well know.
For if I have done any injury or anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there is nothing of the things of which they accuse me, nobody can give me to them. I appeal to Caesar.
Then Festus, having spoken to the council, replied: You have appealed to Caesar; you will go to Caesar.
And after a few days, King Agrippa and Berenice came to Caesarea to greet Festus.
And since they were there many days, Festus exposed Paul's cause to the king, saying: A man has been imprisoned by Felix,
about whom, when I went to Jerusalem, the chief priests and elders of the Jews came to me, asking for condemnation against him.
To these I replied: It is not the custom of the Romans to hand someone over to death before the accused has his accusers before him, and can defend himself against the accusation.
So, having come here together, without delay, the next day, sitting in court, I ordered the man brought;
and the accusers being present, they did not present any charges that I suspected,
but they had certain questions against him about his religion and about a certain Jesus, already dead, of whom Paul affirmed that he was alive.
And I, doubting such a question, asked him if he wanted to go to Jerusalem and there be judged on these things.
But since Paul appealed for custody in order to be tried by Augustus, I ordered him to be guarded until I sent him to Caesar.
Then Agripa said to Festo: I would also like to hear that man. And he said to him: Tomorrow you will hear him.
And the next day, Agrippa and Berenice came with great pomp, and entered the audience with the tribunes and main men of the city, by command of Festus, Paul was brought.
Then Festus said: King Agrippa, and all the men who are here together with us, here you have this one, for whom all the multitude of the Jews have begged me in Jerusalem and here, shouting that he should not live any longer;
but I, finding that nothing worthy of death has done, and since he himself appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Since I have no certain thing to write to my lord, I have brought him before you, and especially before you, O king Agrippa, so that after questioning him, I have what to write.
Because it seems out of reason to send a prisoner, and not report the charges against him.