And five days later, the high priest Ananias descended with some of the elders and a certain orator named Tertullus; and they accused Paul before the governor.
And when Paul was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: Because thanks to you we live in great peace, and many things are well governed in the town by your prudence,
we always and everywhere receive this with thanksgiving, oh most excellent Felix.
But in order not to bother you any longer, I beg you to listen to us briefly according to your equity.
Because we have found that this man is a plague, and promoter of seditions among all the Jews throughout the world, and leader of the sect of the Nazarenes,
who also attempted to desecrate the temple; and taking him, we wanted to judge him according to our law.
But the tribune Lysias intervened, with great violence took him from our hands,
sending their accusers to come to you; You yourself, then, by judging him, you will understand all these things of which we accuse him.
The Jews also confirmed it, claiming to be these things.
Then Pablo, once the governor signaled him to speak, replied: Because I know that for many years you have been judge of this nation, with good spirits I will present my defense.
You can see that it was not more than twelve days since I went up to worship Jerusalem;
and they did not find me disputing with any, nor making a tumult among the crowd, neither in the temple, nor in the synagogues nor in the city;
nor can they prove the things of which they now accuse me.
But this I confess to you, that according to the Path that they call heresy, thus I serve the God of my parents, believing all the things that in the law and in the prophets are written,
having hope in God that there must be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and of the unjust, which they also have.
And for this, I always try to have a conscience without remorse before God and before men.
But after many years, I came to give alms to my nation and present offerings,
I was in it when I was found by some Jews from Asia purified in the temple (not with a crowd or with a fuss);
they should appear before you and accuse me if they have anything against me.
Or say these same if they found something wrong in me when I appeared before the council,
Unless, being among them, I broke out with a loud voice: About the resurrection of the dead I am judged today by you.
Then Felix, having heard these things, being well informed of this Path, made them delay, saying: When the tribune Lysias descends, I will finish learning about your matter.
And he ordered the centurion to guard Paul, but with some measure of freedom; and that he did not prevent any of his own from serving or coming to him.
And a few days later, when Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was Jewish, called Paul and heard from him about faith in Jesus Christ.
And when he spoke of righteousness, of self-control and of the coming judgment, Felix was shocked and replied: Now go; But when I get a chance, I'll call you.
He also hoped with this that Paul would give him money to release him; therefore, making him come many times, he spoke to him.
And after two years, Felix received Porcio Festo as his successor; and Felix, wanting to ingratiate himself with the Jews, left Paul imprisoned.