While they were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple guard, and the Sadducees came upon them,
indignant because they taught the people, and announced in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
They got hold of them and put them in jail until the next day, because it was too late.
But many of those who had heard the message believed, reaching the number of men as five thousand.
And it came to pass that the next day their rulers, elders, and scribes met in Jerusalem;
There were the high priest Annas, Caiaphas, John, and Alexander, and all who were of the high priests' lineage.
And having placed them in their midst, they asked them: By what power, or in what name, have you done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: Rulers and elders of the people,
if we are being questioned today because of the benefit done to a sick man, in what way has he been healed,
Know all of you, and all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead, through him, this man is here healthy before you.
This Jesus is the STONE DISCARDED by you THE BUILDERS, BUT HE HAS COME TO BE THE CORNER STONE.
And in no other is there salvation, for there is no other name under heaven given among men, by which we can be saved.
Seeing the confidence of Peter and John, and realizing that they were men without letters and without preparation, they marveled, and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
And seeing the healed man standing next to them, they had nothing to say against it.
But having ordered them to leave the council, they deliberated among themselves,
saying: What shall we do with these men? Because the fact that a remarkable miracle has been performed through them is evident to all who live in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But in order that it may not spread further among the people, let us threaten them so that they will no longer speak to any man in this name.
When they called them, they ordered them not to speak or teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answering, said to them: You yourselves judge whether it is right before God to obey you before God;
because we cannot stop saying what we have seen and heard.
And they, after threatening them again, let them go (not finding a way to punish them) because of the people, because they all glorified God for what had happened;
because the man in whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old.
When they were released, they went to theirs and told them everything that the chief priests and elders had told them.
When they heard this, they unanimously raised their voices to God and said: Oh, Lord, you are the one who MADE HEAVEN AND EARTH, THE SEA AND ALL THAT THERE IS IN THEM,
the one who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said: WHY DID THE GENTILES ENCOURAGE, AND THE PEOPLE MAKE GOOD THINGS?
THE KINGS OF THE EARTH CAME UP, AND THE RULERS GATHERED TOGETHER AGAINST THE LORD AND AGAINST HIS CHRIST.
For truly, in this city both Herod and Pontius Pilate were united, together with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed,
to do whatever your hand and your purpose had predestined to happen.
And now, Lord, consider his threats, and allow your servants to speak your word with all confidence,
as you extend your hand for healing, signs and wonders to be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus.
After they prayed, the place where they were gathered trembled, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with courage.
The congregation of those who believed was of one heart and one soul; and no one claimed that what he possessed was his, but that all things were of common property.
With great power the apostles bore witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all.
So there was no needy among them, because everyone who owned land or houses sold them, brought the price of what was sold,
And they deposited it at the feet of the apostles, and it was distributed to each one according to his need.
And Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles also called Barnabas (which translated means son of consolation),
He owned a field and sold it, and brought the money and deposited it at the feet of the apostles.
