But a certain man named Ananias, together with his wife Safira, sold a possession.
With the knowledge of his wife, he subtracted from the price; And carrying a part, he placed it at the apostles' feet.
And Peter said: —Anasias, why did Satan fill your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and subtract from the price of the field?
Holding him back, wasn't he still yours? And once sold, was it not under your authority? Why did you propose in your heart to do this? You have not lied to men, but to God.
Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell and expired. And great fear fell upon all who heard it.
Then the young men got up and wrapped him up. And taking him outside, they buried him.
After an interval of about three hours, it happened that his wife entered, not knowing what had happened.
Then Pedro asked him: "Tell me, did they sell the field for so long?" She said, "Yes, meanwhile."
And Peter said to him, "Why did you agree to tempt the Spirit of the Lord?" Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.
Immediately, she fell at his feet and expired. When the young men entered, they found her dead; they took her out and buried her with her husband.
And great fear came to the whole church and to all who heard of these things.
By the hands of the apostles many miracles and wonders were performed among the people, and they were all in one mind on Solomon's portico.
But none of the others dared to join them, although the people held them in high esteem.
Those who believed in the Lord increased more and more, both men and women;
so that they even took the sick to the streets and put them on stretchers and mats, so that when Pedro passed, at least his shadow fell on one of them.
Also from the neighboring cities to Jerusalem a multitude attended bringing sick and tormented by impure spirits; and they were all healed.
Then the high priest and all who were with him, that is, the sect of the Sadducees, rose up and became jealous.
They seized the apostles and put them in public prison.
But an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors at night and when leading them outside said:
"Go, and stand in the temple, speak to the people all the words of this life."
Having heard this, they entered the temple at dawn and taught. Meanwhile, the high priest and those who were with him went and called the Sanhedrin with all the elders of the children of Israel. Then they sent to jail to be brought.
When the officers arrived and were not found in jail, they returned and broke the news.
Saying, "We found the prison secure, and the guards standing at the doors." But when we open, we find no one inside.
As they heard these words, the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests were puzzled as to them and what would come of this.
But someone came and gave them this news: —Behold, the men who were thrown into prison are standing in the temple, teaching the people.
Then he was the captain of the temple guard with the officers; and they took them, but without violence, because they feared being stoned by the people.
When they were brought in, they were presented to the Sanhedrin, and the high priest asked them
saying, "Did we not strictly command them not to teach in this name?" And behold, they have filled Jerusalem with their doctrine and want to cast upon us the blood of this man!
But Peter and the apostles answering, said: —It is necessary to obey God before men.
The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
This, God has exalted with his right hand as Prince and Savior, to give Israel repentance and forgiveness of sins.
We are witnesses to these things, and also the Holy Spirit that God has given to those who obey Him.
Those who listened were furious and wanted to kill them.
Then a certain Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, honored by all the people, rose up in the Sanhedrin and ordered that the men be brought out for a moment.
Then he said to them, "Men of Israel, beware of what you are going to do to these men.
Because before these days Theudas got up, saying that he was someone. About four hundred men joined this. But he was killed, and all who followed him were scattered and reduced to nothing.
After this, Judas the Galilean rose in the days of the census, and dragged people after him. He also perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
In the present case, I say to you: Get away from these men and let them go. Because if this council or this work belongs to men, it will be destroyed.
But if it is from God, they cannot destroy you. Lest they find themselves fighting against God!
They were persuaded by Gamaliel. And they called the apostles, and after whipping them they forbade them to speak in the name of Jesus, and set them free.
Therefore, they departed from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they had been deemed worthy of affront for the Name.
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not stop teaching and announcing the good news that Jesus is the Christ.