And Saul was in complete agreement with them in his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem, and all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And some godly men buried Stephen, and wept with a loud voice for him.
But Saul ravaged the church by going from house to house, and dragging men and women, he threw them in jail.
So those who had been scattered were preaching the word.
Philip, descending to the city of Samaria, preached Christ to them.
And the unanimous crowds paid attention to what Philip said, hearing and seeing the signs he did.
Because of many who had unclean spirits, these came out of them screaming with a loud voice; and many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed.
And there was great rejoicing in that city.
And a certain man named Simon, had long been exercising magic in the city and astonishing the people of Samaria, pretending to be a great character;
and everyone, from the youngest to the oldest, paid attention to him, saying: This is the one called the Great Power of God.
They paid attention to him because he had long amazed them with his magical arts.
But when they believed Philip, who announced the good news of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized.
And even Simon himself believed; and after being baptized, he continued with Philip, and was astonished to see the signs and the great miracles that were performed.
When the apostles who were in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John,
who came down and prayed for them to receive the Holy Ghost,
for he had not yet descended upon any of them; they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
When Simon saw that the Spirit was given by the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,
saying: Give me also this authority, so that everyone on whom I lay my hands receives the Holy Spirit.
Then Peter said to him: May your silver perish with you, because you thought that you could obtain the gift of God with money.
You have no part or luck in this matter, because your heart is not right before God.
Therefore, repent of this your wickedness, and pray to the Lord that if possible you will forgive the intent of your heart.
Because I see that you are on the gall of bitterness and on the chain of iniquity.
But Simon answered and said: Pray to the Lord for me, so that nothing you have said may come upon me.
And they, having solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, began their return to Jerusalem by proclaiming the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. (This is a desert road.)
He got up and went; and behold, there was an Ethiopian eunuch, high officer of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasures, and had come to Jerusalem to worship.
He would return sitting in his carriage, and read the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip: Go and join that carriage.
When Philip came running, he heard the prophet Isaiah read, and said to him: Do you understand what you read?
And he answered: How can I, unless someone guides me? And he invited Felipe to come up and sit with him.
The Scripture passage I was reading was this: AS A SHEEP HE WAS TAKEN TO THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE; AND AS A LAMB, DUMP IN FRONT OF THE ONE WHO RIDES IT, HE DOES NOT OPEN HIS MOUTH.
IN HIS HUMBLING NO JUSTICE WAS DONE; WHO WILL COUNT YOUR GENERATION? BECAUSE YOUR LIFE IS REMOVED FROM THE EARTH.
The eunuch answered Philip and said: Please tell me, whose prophet is this saying? From yourself, or from someone else?
Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, he announced the gospel of Jesus to him.
Going down the road, they came to a place where there was water; And the eunuch said *: Look, water. What prevents me from being baptized?
And Felipe said: If you believe with all your heart, you can. He answered and said: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he ordered the carriage to stop; both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and baptized him.
As they came out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away; and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip met in Azoto, and wherever he passed, he announced the gospel in all the cities, until he reached Caesarea.