Festus, then, three days after arriving in the province, went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
And the chief priests and the most influential Jews brought charges against Paul, and urged Festus,
asking him, against Paul, the favor of having him brought to Jerusalem (at the same time preparing an ambush to kill him on the way).
But Festus replied that Paul was in custody at Caesarea, and that he would shortly depart there himself.
Therefore, he said, * that the most influential of you go there with me, and if there is something wrong with the man, let them accuse him.
After staying no more than eight or ten days between them, he went down to Caesarea, and the next day he sat in court and ordered that Paul be brought.
When he arrived, the Jews who had descended from Jerusalem surrounded him, presenting against him many and serious accusations that they could not prove,
while Paul said in self defense: I have not committed any crime, neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar.
But Festus, wanting to do the Jews a favor, answered Paul, and said: Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be tried before me for these accusations?
Then Paul answered: I am before Caesar's tribunal, which is where I must be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you too well know.
If I am, then, an evildoer and have done something worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; But if none of those things they accuse me of is true, no one can turn me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.
Then Festus, having deliberated with the council, replied: To Caesar you have appealed, to Caesar you will go.
After several days, King Agrippa and Berenice arrived at Caesarea and went to greet Festus.
As they were there many days, Festus presented the case of Paul before the king, saying: There is a man that Felix imprisoned,
about which, while I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and elders of the Jews brought charges against him, asking for a condemnatory sentence against him.
I replied that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over a man without the accused first confronting his accusers, and having the opportunity to defend himself against the charges.
So when they gathered here without delay, the next day I sat in court and ordered the man brought.
And when the accusers arose, they presented accusations against him, but not of the kind of crimes that I supposed,
they simply had certain questions against him about his own religion, and about a certain Jesus, already dead, of whom Paul claimed he was alive.
But being puzzled how to investigate these questions, I asked him if he was willing to go to Jerusalem and be judged of these things there.
But since Paul appealed that he be held in custody for the emperor to give the ruling, I ordered him to continue in custody until I sent him to Caesar.
Then Agripa said to Festo: I too would like to hear the man. Tomorrow, said Festus, you will hear it.
So the next day, when Agripa and Berenice entered the auditorium amid great pomp, accompanied by the commanders and the important men of the city, by order of Festus, Pablo was brought.
And Festus * said: King Agrippa and all the others here with us; Here you see this man about whom the entire multitude of the Jews, both in Jerusalem and here, made a request to me, crying out that he should no longer live.
But I found that he had done nothing worthy of death; and since he himself appealed to the emperor, I have decided to send him.
But I have nothing definite about him to write to my lord. That is why I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after being questioned, I have something to write about.
Because it seems absurd to me, when sending a prisoner, not also to report the charges against him.
