And after the uproar had ceased, Paul called the disciples, having exhorted and embraced them, took his leave, and went out to go to Macedonia.
And after going through those parts and exhorting them with an abundance of words, he arrived in Greece.
After being there for three months, and being ambushed by the Jews for when he embarked for Syria, he decided to return to Macedonia.
And they accompanied him to Asia Sópater, from Berea; and the Thessalonians, Aristarco and Segundo; and Gaius, from Derbe; and Timothy; and from Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
These, having gone ahead, awaited us at Troas.
And we, after the days of unleavened bread, sailed from Philippi, and in five days we met them at Troas, where we stayed seven days.
And on the first day of the week, the disciples gathered together to break bread, Paul taught them, having to leave the next day; and extended the speech until midnight.
And there were many lamps in the upper room where they were gathered.
And a young man named Eutychus, who was sitting at the window, exhausted from a deep sleep, as Paul spoke at length, overcome by sleep, fell from the third floor below and was raised dead.
Then Paul came down and stretched out on him, and hugging him said: Do not be alarmed, for his soul is in him.
After he had gone up and broke the bread and eaten, he spoke at length until dawn, and so he left.
And they brought the young man alive, and were greatly comforted.
And we, going ahead to embark, sailed to Asón to collect Paul there, since he had determined that he should go by land.
And when he met us at Asón, taking him on board, we came to Mytilene.
And sailing from there, the next day we arrived in front of Chio, and the next day we took port at Samos; and having made a stopover in Trogilio, the next day we arrived at Miletus.
Because Paul had proposed to pass Ephesus, not to stop in Asia, because he was rushing to be on the day of Pentecost, if possible, in Jerusalem.
And sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called the elders of the church.
And when they came to him, he said to them: You know how, from the first day I entered Asia, I have lived among you all the time,
serving the Lord with all humility, and with many tears and tribulations that have come to me for the snares of the Jews;
and as nothing that was useful I have shunned to announce and teach you, publicly and by the houses,
witnessing to Jews and Gentiles about repentance towards God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, bound by the Spirit, I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit throughout all cities testifies to me, saying that prisons and tribulations await me.
But I do not pay attention to anything, nor do I consider my life precious for myself, provided that I finish my career with joy, and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear witness to the gospel of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that none of you, among whom I have passed preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face any more.
Therefore, I declare to you today that I am clean from everyone's blood;
for I have not shied away from announcing to you all the counsel of God.
Therefore, look for you and for all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you bishops, to feed the church of the Lord, which he won by his own blood.
For I know that after my departure ravenous wolves will enter your midst who will not spare the flock;
and from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to drag the disciples after them.
Therefore, watch, remembering that for three years, night and day, I have not ceased to admonish each one with tears.
And now, brothers, I entrust you to God and to the word of his grace, which is powerful to build you up and give you an inheritance with all the sanctified.
Neither silver nor gold nor anyone's dress have I coveted.
Rather, you know that for what has been necessary for me and those who are with me, these hands have served me.
In everything I have taught you that, working in this way, you should help those in need and keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, who said: It is more blessed to give than to receive.
And when he had said these things, he fell to his knees and prayed with all of them.
Then there was a great cry from everyone; And throwing themselves around Paul's neck, they kissed him,
hurting greatly at the word he said that they were not to see his face anymore. And they accompanied him to the ship.