Saul, still breathing threats and death against the Lord's disciples, went to the high priest,
and he asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found some that belonged to the Way, both men and women, he could take them tied to Jerusalem.
And it happened that as he traveled, as he approached Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven shone around him;
and when he fell to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him: Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?
And he said: Who are you, Lord? And He answered: I am Jesus whom you persecute;
Arise, enter the city, and you will be told what to do.
The men who were with him stopped, stunned, hearing the voice, but seeing no one.
Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw nothing; And taking him by the hand, they brought him to Damascus.
And he was three days without seeing, and he neither ate nor drank.
There was in Damascus a certain disciple named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision: Ananias. And he said, Here am I, Lord.
And the Lord said to him: Get up and go to the street called Right, and ask in the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul, because, behold, he is praying,
and she has seen in a vision a man named Ananias, who enters and lays his hands on him so that he may recover his sight.
But Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to your saints in Jerusalem,
and here he has the authority of the chief priests to apprehend all who call on your name.
But the Lord said to him: Go, because he is a chosen instrument for me, to bear my name in the presence of the Gentiles, the kings and the children of Israel;
because I will show you how much you must suffer for my name.
Ananias went and entered the house, and after laying his hands on him, he said: Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road where you were coming, has sent me to recover your sight and be filled with the Spirit Holy.
Instantly, scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight; and he got up and was baptized.
He took food and gained strength. And for several days he was with the disciples who were in Damascus.
And immediately he began to preach Jesus in the synagogues, saying: He is the Son of God.
And all who listened to him were amazed and said: Is not this the one who in Jerusalem destroyed those who called on this name, and the one who had come here for this purpose: to bring them bound before the chief priests?
But Saul continued to strengthen and confuse the Jews who lived in Damascus, demonstrating that this Jesus is the Christ.
After many days, the Jews plotted to get rid of him,
but his conspiracy came to the knowledge of Saul. And they even guarded the doors day and night with the purpose of killing him;
but his disciples took him at night and took him out through an opening in the wall, lowering him into a basket.
When he arrived in Jerusalem, he was trying to join the disciples; and everyone feared him, not believing that he was a disciple.
But Barnabas took it and presented it to the apostles, and told them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them moving freely in Jerusalem, speaking courageously in the name of the Lord.
He also spoke and argued with Hellenistic Jews; but these tried to kill him.
But when the brothers suppressed them, they took him to Caesarea, and from there they sent him to Tarsus.
Meanwhile the church enjoyed peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and was built; and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the strength of the Holy Spirit, he kept growing.
And while Peter traveled through all those regions, he also came to the saints who lived in Lida.
There she found a man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years because he was paralyzed.
And Peter said to him: Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; get up and make your bed. And instantly he got up.
All who lived in Lida and in Sharon saw it, and were converted to the Lord.
There was then at Joppa a disciple named Tabitha (who translated into Greek is Dorcas); This woman was rich in good works and charity that she did continuously.
And it came to pass that in those days he became ill and died; and washed his body, they put him in a high room.
As Lida was close to Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent him two men, pleading with him: Do not delay in coming to us.
Then Peter got up and went with them. When he arrived, they took him to the upper room, and all the widows surrounded him crying, showing all the robes and clothes that Dorcas used to make when he was with them.
But Peter, bringing everyone out, knelt down and prayed, and turning to the corpse, said: Tabitha, get up. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Pedro, she sat up.
And he gave her his hand and raised her up; and calling the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
And this was known in all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
And Peter stayed in Joppa many days with a certain Simon, tanner.