Five days later the high priest Ananías descended with some elders and with a lawyer named Tertulo; and they presented their charges against Pablo to the governor.
After Paul was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying to the governor: Since we have obtained much peace through you, and that by your providence reforms are being carried out in favor of this nation,
We, by all means and everywhere, acknowledge this with deep gratitude, O Most Excellent Felix.
But in order not to disturb you further, I beg you, with your usual kindness, to grant us a brief audience.
For we have discovered that this man is truly a plague, and that he causes dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and leader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
He even tried to desecrate the temple; so we arrested him and wanted to try him according to our law.
But Commander Lysias intervened, with great violence took it from our hands,
sending their accusers to come to you. If you question him about everything I've said, you can confirm the things of which we accuse him.
The Jews also joined the accusation, ensuring that, indeed, that was all.
After the governor signaled him to speak, Paul replied: Knowing that for many years you have been judge of this nation, I gladly present my defense,
since you can verify the fact that it was not more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
And neither in the temple, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city itself did they find me arguing with anyone or causing a riot.
Nor can they prove to you what they now accuse me of.
But this I admit before you, that according to the Path that they call sect, I serve the God of our parents, believing everything that is according to the law and that is written in the prophets;
having the same hope in God that they also harbor, that there will certainly be a resurrection of both the righteous and the wicked.
For this reason, I also strive to always maintain a blameless conscience before God and before men.
And, after several years, I have come to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings;
doing which they found me in the temple, after having purified me, not with multitude nor with fuss. But there were certain Jews from Asia,
and that they should have come here before you and charged me if they had anything against me.
Or if not, that they themselves say what crime they found when I appeared before the council,
were it not for this one statement that I made out loud while I was among them: "By the resurrection of the dead I am judged before you today."
Then Felix, knowing more about the Camino, postponed the ruling, saying: When Commander Lysias comes, I will decide your case.
And he instructed the centurion to keep Paul in custody, but with some measure of freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from serving him.
But a few days later, Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish, and he ordered Paul to be brought in and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
And when Paul spoke about justice, self-control and the coming judgment, Felix, frightened, said: Go for now, but when I have time I will send you to call.
At the same time, he hoped that Paul would give him money; that's why I used to call him frequently and talk to him.
But after two years, Porcius Festus came as Felix's successor, and wishing to do the Jews a favor, Felix imprisoned Paul.
