Then Paul, fixing his eyes on the Sanhedrin, said: —Brothers, I have lived before God with all good conscience to this day.
And the high priest Ananias commanded those who were by his side to strike him on the mouth.
Then Pablo said: —God has to hit you, whitewashed wall! You are sitting to judge me according to the law; and breaking the law, do you order them to beat me?
Those who were present said to him, "Do you insult the high priest of God?"
And Paul said, "Brothers, I did not know that he was the high priest; for it is written, Thou shalt not curse the ruler of your people.
Then Paul, knowing that one part of the Sanhedrin was Sadducees and the other part Pharisees, shouted in the Sanhedrin: —Brothers, I am a Pharisee, son of Pharisees. It is for the hope and resurrection of the dead that I am judged.
When he said this, there was dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. The assembly was divided,
because the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, no angels, no spirits; but the Pharisees affirm all these things.
A great shouting arose, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees' party rose and contended, saying, "We found no wrong with this man." And what if a spirit or an angel has spoken to you [b]?
As there was great dissension, the tribune, fearing that Paul would be torn to pieces, ordered the soldiers to come down to snatch him from their midst and take him to the fortress.
The next night the Lord came to him and said, "Be brave, Paul, for just as you have testified of me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome."
When the day came, the Jews hatched a plot and swore themselves under a curse, saying that they would not eat or drink until Paul had been killed.
There were more than forty who had made this conjuration.
They went to the chief priests and the elders, and said to them, "We have sworn under a curse that we will not like anything until we have killed Paul."
Now, then, with the Sanhedrin, ask the tribune to remove you tomorrow, as if you had to investigate your case more accurately. But we will be prepared to kill him before he arrives.
But Paul's sister's son heard of the ambush. He went, entered the fortress, and reported it to Paul.
Paul called one of the centurions and said, "Take this young man to the tribune, because he has something to communicate to you."
Then he took him, took him to the tribune, and said: —The prisoner Pablo called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to tell you.
The tribune took him by the hand, and taking him aside asked privately, "What is it you have to tell me?"
And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul out to the Sanhedrin tomorrow, as if they were going to find out something more exact about him."
Well, don't believe them, because more than forty of their men are ambushing him. They have sworn under a curse that they will not eat or drink until they have murdered him. Now they are ready, waiting for a promise from you.
Then the tribune dismissed the young man, instructing him: "Do not tell anyone that you have informed me of this."
Then the tribune called two of the centurions and said: "By nine o'clock at night [c] prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy more cavalry, and two hundred lancers to go to Caesarea."
At the same time, he ordered them to provide mounts for Pablo to ride, and to bring Attorney Felix to safety.
He also wrote a letter in these terms:
Claudio Lisias, to the Most Excellent Attorney Felix. Regards.
When this man was apprehended by the Jews and was about to be killed by them, I rescued him by going with the troops, having understood that he was a Roman.
Wanting to know the crime for which they accused him, I brought the Sanhedrin down from them.
I found that he was charged with questions of their law, but without any charge of crime worthy of death or imprisonment.
But since I was informed that there would be a plot against the man, I immediately sent him to you and I have also informed his accusers to declare before you what they have against him [d].
Therefore, according to the orders they had received, the soldiers took Pablo and took him to Antípatris at night.
And the next day, leaving the cavalry to follow him, they returned to the fortress.
After arriving at Caesarea and delivering the letter to the procurator, they also presented Paul before him.
The attorney read the letter and asked what province he was from. Informed that he was from Cilicia, he said:
"I will hear your cause when your accusers come."