"I have told you this so that you are not scandalized.
They will be expelled from the synagogues, and the time is still coming when anyone who kills them will think they are serving God.
This they will do because they know neither the Father nor me.
However, I have told you these things so that when your time comes, you will remember them, that I told you. "However, I didn't tell you this at first because I was with you.
But now I am going to the one who sent me, and none of you asks me: 'Where are you going?'
Rather, because I have told you this, your heart is filled with sadness.
But I tell you the truth: It is in your best interest that I leave; because if I don't leave, the Comforter will not come to you. And if I go, I will send it to you.
"When he comes, he will convince the world of sin, of justice and of judgment.
As for sin, because they don't believe in me;
As for justice, because I am going to the Father and they will see me no more;
and as for judgment, because the prince of this world has been judged.
"I have yet to tell you many things, but now you cannot bear them.
And when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth because he will not speak for himself but will speak everything he hears and will make known to you the things that are to come.
He will glorify me, because he will receive what is mine and make it known to you.
Everything the Father has is mine. For this reason I said that you will receive what is mine and will let you know.
"A little bit, and they won't see me; again a little bit, and they'll see me" [a].
Then some of his disciples said to each other: —What does this mean that says to us: "A little bit, and you will not see me; again a little bit, and you will see me" and "because I am going to the Father"?
So they said, "What does this mean, 'a little bit'?" We do not understand what you are saying.
Jesus understood that they wanted to ask him and he said to them: —Among your questions about what I said: "A little, and you will not see me; and again a little, and you will see me"?
Truly, truly, I tell you that you will cry and regret, but the world will rejoice. You will have anguish, but your anguish will become joy.
When a woman gives birth, she is distressed because her time has come. But after a child has given birth, it no longer remembers the pain for the joy of the birth of a man in the world.
You too, by the way, are in anguish now but I will see you again. Your heart will rejoice greatly, and no one will take away your joy.
On that day they won't ask me anything. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you.
So far they have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be complete.
"I have spoken to you of these things in figures; but the hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures but will clearly announce to you about the Father.
In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not tell you that I will pray to the Father for you.
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and believed that I have come out of the presence of God.
I left the presence of the Father and have come into the world; again I leave the world and go to the Father.
His disciples said to him, "Behold, now you speak clearly and you do not speak in any figure."
Now we understand that you know all things and you don't need anyone to ask you. In this we believe that you have come from God.
Jesus answered them: "Now do you believe?"
Behold, the hour is coming, and it has already come, when each one will be scattered on his own and will leave me alone. But I am not alone because the Father is with me.
I have spoken to you of these things so that you may have peace in me. In the world they will have grief, but have courage; I have overcome the world!