On the third day a wedding was celebrated in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there;
and also Jesus was invited, with his disciples, to the wedding.
When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother said to him: "They have no wine.
And Jesus * said to her, "Woman, what's going on with you and me?" It has not come my time yet.
His mother * said to the servants, Do whatever He tells you.
And there were six stone jars there, set to be used in the rite of purification of the Jews; each one held two or three pitchers.
Jesus said to them *: Fill the jars with water. And they filled them until the edge.
Then he said to them, "Now take a little out and take him to the master. And they took him away.
When the master tasted the water turned into wine, and since he did not know where it came from (but those who served, who had drawn the water, knew it), the master called * the groom,
And he said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first, and when they have had enough, then the least; but you have kept the good wine until now.
This principle of his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, He, with his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; but they did not stay there many days.
The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
and found in the temple those who sold oxen, sheep, and doves, and those who exchanged money sitting there.
And making a lash of ropes, he threw everyone out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen; he scattered the money changers and overturned the tables;
And he said to those who sold doves: Take this away from here; do not make my Father's house a business house.
His disciples remembered that it was written: THE ZEAL FOR YOUR HOUSE WILL CONSUME ME.
Then the Jews answered and said to him: Since you do these things, what sign do you show us?
Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Then the Jews said: In forty-six years this temple was built, and will you raise it up in three days?
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
So when he rose from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this; and they believed in the Scripture and in the word that Jesus had spoken.
When he was in Jerusalem during the Passover festival, many believed in his name when they saw the signs he was doing.
But Jesus, for his part, did not entrust himself to them, because he knew everyone,
and he had no need for anyone to bear witness to the man, for he knew what was in the man.
