After this, Jesus manifested himself again to his disciples by the Tiberian sea; and it manifested itself this way:
Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus were together, and Nathanael, who was from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee and two other of his disciples.
Simon Peter said to them: I am going to fish. They said to him, Let us also go with you. They went and got into a boat, but that night they caught nothing.
And when it was already dawn, Jesus appeared on the shore, but the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
And he said to them: Little children, do you have something to eat? They answered: No.
And he said to them: Cast the net to the right of the boat and you will find. So they threw it out, and they couldn't get it out anymore, because of the large number of fish.
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter: He is the Lord! And when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his clothes, because he had stripped them off, and cast himself into the sea.
And the other disciples went with the boat, dragging the net full of fish, because they were not far from land but about two hundred cubits.
And when they went ashore, they saw embers set and a fish on them, and bread.
Jesus said to them, Bring the fish that you have caught now.
Simon Peter went up and brought the net ashore, full of big fish, one hundred and fifty-three; and even being so many, the network did not break.
Jesus said to them: Come, eat. And none of the disciples dared to ask him: Who are you ?, knowing that he was the Lord.
So Jesus came and took the bread and gave them; and also of the fish.
This was already the third time that Jesus manifested himself to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
And when they had eaten, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? Pedro replied: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him: Feed my lambs.
He said to him the second time: Simon son of Jonah, do you love me? He replied: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him: Feed my sheep.
The third time he said to him, Simon son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was saddened that I said to him a third time: Do you love me? And he said to him: Lord, you know all things; You know that I love you. Jesus said to him: Feed my sheep.
Truly, truly, I say to you: When you were younger, you would gird yourself and go where you wanted; but when you are old, you will extend your hands, and another will gird you and take you where you do not want.
And this he said implying with what death he was to glorify God. And saying this, he said to him: Follow me.
Turning Peter, he saw that disciple whom Jesus loved, who followed them, the one who had also leaned on his chest at dinner and said to him: Lord, who is it that is going to deliver you?
So when Peter saw him, he said to Jesus: Lord, what about this man?
Jesus said to him: If I want him to stay until I come, what about you? Follow me.
Then it was said among the brothers that that disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die, but: If I want him to stay until I come, what about you?
This is that disciple who testifies to these things, and the one who wrote these things, and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things that Jesus did, which if each one were written, I think that even in the world the books that would be written would not fit. Amen.