After saying this, Jesus went out with his disciples to the other side of the Kidron stream, where there was a garden where he entered with his disciples.
Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, also knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples.
Then Judas, taking the Roman cohort, and several bailiffs of the chief priests and of the Pharisees, went there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.
So Jesus, knowing all that was to come to him, went out and said to them, * Who are you looking for?
They answered him: Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them *: I am. And Judas, the betrayer, was with them.
And when He said to them: I am, they fell back and fell to the ground.
Jesus then asked them again: Who are you looking for? And they said: Jesus the Nazarene.
Jesus answered: I have told you that I am; therefore, if you seek me, let these go;
so that the word he had said would be fulfilled: Of those you gave me, I did not lose any.
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, took it out and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant was called Malco.
Jesus then said to Peter: Put the sword in the scabbard. The cup that the Father has given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the Roman cohort, the commander and the bailiffs of the Jews seized Jesus and tied him,
and they brought him first before Annas, because he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
And Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that a man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and also another disciple. This disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered the high priest's courtyard with Jesus,
but Pedro was outside, at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the caretaker, and brought Peter in.
Then the maid who guarded the door * said to Peter: Are you not also one of this man's disciples? And he said *: I am not.
And the servants and the bailiffs were standing warming themselves next to some embers that they had lit because it was cold; and Peter was also standing with them and warming up.
Then the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teachings.
Jesus replied: I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather, and I have never spoken in secret.
Why are you asking me? Ask those who have heard what I spoke; behold, they know what I have said.
When he said this, one of the sheriffs nearby was slapping Jesus, saying: Is this how you respond to the high priest?
Jesus answered him: If I have spoken badly, testify of what I have spoken badly; But if I spoke well, why did you hit me?
Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
Simon Peter was standing, warming himself up; Then they said to him, Are you not also one of his disciples? He denied it and said: I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, who was a relative of the one to whom Peter had cut off his ear, said *: Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
And Peter denied it again, and instantly a rooster crowed.
So they * brought Jesus from Caiaphas' house to the Praetorium. It was very morning. And they did not enter the Praetorium to avoid contamination and to eat the Passover.
Pilate then went out to them and said *: What accusation do you bring against this man?
They answered and said to him: If this man were not a criminal, we would not have handed him over to you.
Then Pilate said to them, Take him away, and judge him according to your law. The Jews said to him: We are not allowed to kill anyone.
So that the word that Jesus had spoken would be fulfilled, implying what kind of death he was going to die.
Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, and called Jesus and said to him: Are you the King of the Jews?
Jesus replied: Do you say this on your own, or because others have told you about me?
Pilate answered: Am I a Jew? Your nation and the chief priests gave you to me. What have you done
Jesus replied: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would fight so that I would not be delivered to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not from here.
Pilate then said to him: So you are king? Jesus replied: You say that I am a king. For this I was born and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.
Pilate asked him *: What is truth? And having said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them *: I find no crime in Him.
But it is the custom among you that I release one to you at Easter. Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Then they shouted again, saying: Not to this one, but to Barabbas. And Barabbas was a thief.