And there was a man from the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a chief among the Jews.
This came to Jesus at night and said to him: Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher who has come from God, because nobody can do these miracles that you do if God is not with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born again cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to him: How can man be born when he is old? Can he enter his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered: Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born of water and the Spirit cannot enter the kingdom of God.
What is born of the flesh is flesh; and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Do not marvel that I told you: You must be born again.
The wind blows where it wants, and you hear its sound; but you don't know where it comes from or where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him: How can this be done?
Jesus answered and said to him: Are you the teacher of Israel and do not know this?
Truly, truly, I tell you that what we know we speak of and what we have seen we testify; but you do not receive our testimony.
If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly ones?
And no one has ascended to heaven except the one who descended from heaven, the Son of Man who is in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so it is necessary for the Son of Man to be raised up,
so that everyone who believes in him does not get lost, but has eternal life.
For God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not perish, but have eternal life.
Because God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but so that the world would be saved by him.
He who believes in him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has already been condemned, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation: that light came into the world, but men loved darkness more than light, because their works were evil.
For everyone who does evil hates light and does not come to light, so that his works may not be rebuked.
But he who lives according to the truth comes to the light, so that it may be revealed that his works are done in God.
After this, Jesus came with his disciples to the land of Judea; and he was there with them and baptized.
And John also baptized in Aenon, next to Salim, because there were many waters there; and they came and were baptized,
because Juan had not yet been put in jail.
Then there was a discussion between John's disciples and the Jews about purification.
And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, the one who was with you across the Jordan, of whom you bore witness, behold, he baptizes, and all go to him.
John answered and said: Man cannot receive anything if it is not given to him from heaven.
You yourselves bear me witness that I said: I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him.
He who has the bride is the groom; but the groom's friend, who is standing and listening to him, greatly rejoices in the groom's voice; so this, my joy, has been fulfilled.
It is necessary that he grow, and that I decrease.
He who comes from above is above all; He who is of the earth is earthly and speaks earthly things; He who comes from heaven is above all.
And he testifies of what he saw and heard, but no one receives his testimony.
He who has received his testimony testifies that God is truthful.
Because the one that God sent speaks the words of God, because God does not give the Spirit by measure.
The Father loves the Son and has put all things in his hands.
He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does not believe in the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God is upon him.