After this Jesus went to the other shore of the Sea of ​​Galilee, that is, of Tiberias,
and a large crowd followed him because they saw the signs he was doing on the sick.
Jesus went up a mountain and sat there with his disciples.
The Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
When Jesus raised his eyes and saw a large crowd approaching him, he said to Philip, "Where will we buy bread for these to eat?"
But he said this to prove him, because Jesus knew what he was going to do.
Felipe replied: —Nor with the bread bought with the salary of more than six months would be enough for each of them to receive a little.
One of his disciples, Andrés, the brother of Simón Pedro, said to him:
"Here's a boy who has five barley loaves and two little fish." But what is this for so many?
Then Jesus said, "Have the people lie down." There was a lot of grass in that place. So about five thousand men lay down.
Then Jesus took the loaves and, having given thanks, distributed them among those who were lying down. In the same way he distributed the fish, as much as they wanted.
When they were satisfied, he said to his disciples: "Pick up the pieces that are left so that nothing is lost."
So they gathered up and filled twelve baskets with pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
Then, when the men saw the sign that Jesus had made, they said: —Truly this is the prophet who is to come to the world!
As Jesus understood that they were going to come to take him by force and make him king, he retired again to the mountain, alone.
When night fell, his disciples descended into the sea
and, entering a boat, they crossed the sea towards Capernaum. It was already dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
And the sea was stirring because a great wind was blowing.
Then, when they had rowed about five or six kilometers, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and approaching the boat, and they were afraid.
But he said to them: "I am!" Have no fear!
So they wanted to receive him in the boat and, immediately, the boat reached the land where they were going.
The next day, the crowd that had been on the other side of the sea realized that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples but that they had left alone.
(However, from Tiberias other boats had arrived near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.)
So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there and neither were his disciples, they entered the boats and went to Capernaum looking for Jesus.
When they found him across the sea, they asked him, "Rabbi, when did you get here?"
Jesus answered them saying, "Truly, truly, I tell you, they are looking for me, not because they have seen the signs, but because they ate the loaves and were satisfied."
Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for eternal life that the Son of Man will give you; because in this, God the Father has put his seal.
Then they said to him, "What shall we do to carry out the works of God?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "This is the work of God: that you believe in him whom he has sent."
Then they said to him, "What sign, then, do you make us see and believe in you?" What work do you do?
Our parents ate manna in the desert, as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
So Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven."
Because the bread of God is the one that descends from heaven and gives life to the world.
They said to him, "Sir, always give us this bread."
Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life." He who comes to me will never be hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty.
But I have told you that you have seen me, and you do not believe.
All that the Father gives me will come to me; And whoever comes to me I will never cast out.
Because I have come down from heaven not to do my will but the will of the one who sent me.
And this is the will of the one who sent me: that I do not lose anything of what he has given me, but that I revive him on the last day.
This is the will of my Father: that everyone who looks at the Son and believes in him has eternal life, and that I raise him on the last day.
Then the Jews murmured about him because he had said: "I am the bread that came down from heaven."
And they said: —Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph? Do we not know his father and mother? How come he now says, "I have come down from heaven"?
Jesus answered and said to them, "Do not murmur among yourselves any more.
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings him; and I will raise him up on the last day.
It is written in the Prophets: And they will all be taught by God. So everyone who hears and learns from the Father comes to me.
It is not that someone has seen the Father, but that he who comes from God has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
His parents ate manna in the desert and died.
This is the bread that comes down from heaven so that whoever eats from it will not die.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven; if anyone eats this bread he will live forever. The bread that I will give for the life of the world is my meat.
Then the Jews contended with each other, saying, "How can this man give us his meat to eat?"
And Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, if you do not eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you."
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
Because my meat is true food, and my blood is true drink.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
Just as the living Father sent me, and I live for the Father, in the same way he who eats me will also live for me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not like the parents who ate and died; Whoever eats this bread will live forever.
He said these things in the synagogue when he taught at Capernaum.
Then, hearing it, many of his disciples said: —Hard is this word; Who can hear it?
Knowing in himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, he said to them: "Does this scandalize you?"
What if they saw the Son of Man go up to where he was first?
The Spirit is the one who gives life; the meat is useless. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life.
But there are some among you who do not believe. For from the beginning Jesus knew who those who did not believe were and who was to deliver him,
and he said: —For this reason I have told you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted by the Father.
Since then, many of his disciples went back and were no longer with him.
Then Jesus said to the twelve, "Do you want to go, too?"
Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom shall we go?" You have words of eternal life.
And we have believed and known that you are the Holy One of God.
Jesus answered them: "Did I not choose you twelve and one of you is a devil?"
He spoke of Judas, son of Simon Iscariot, because he, being one of the twelve, was about to deliver him.