But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
And at dawn, he came again to the temple, and all the people came to him; and sitting down, he taught them.
The scribes and Pharisees * brought a woman caught in adultery, and put her in the middle,
They said to him *: Master, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery.
And in the law, Moses ordered us to stone this class of women; So what do you say?
They said this, testing him, to have something to accuse him of. But Jesus leaned down and with his finger wrote on the ground.
But when they insisted on asking him, Jesus straightened up and said to them: He who is without sin among you, be the first to throw a stone at him.
And bowing again, he wrote on the ground.
But when they heard this, they withdrew one by one, starting with the older ones, leaving only Jesus and the woman in the middle.
Straightening up, Jesus said to her, "Woman, where are they?" Has none condemned you?
And she replied: None, Lord. Then Jesus said to him: I do not condemn you either. Go away; from now on sin no more.
Jesus spoke to them again, saying: I am the light of the world; He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to him: You testify of yourself; your testimony is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them: Although I give testimony of myself, my testimony is true, because I know where I have come from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
You judge according to the flesh; I do not judge anyone.
But if I judge, my judgment is true; because it is not me alone, but me and the Father who sent me.
Even in your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
I am the one who testifies of myself, and the Father who sent me testifies of me.
So they said to him: Where is your Father? Jesus replied: You do not know me or my Father. If you knew me, you would also know my Father.
He spoke these words in the treasure place, when he was teaching in the temple; and no one caught him, because his hour had not yet come.
Then he said to them again: I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin; Where I am going, you cannot go.
That is why the Jews said: Is he going to commit suicide, since he says: "Where I am going, you cannot go"?
And Jesus said to them: You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
So I told you that you will die in your sins; because if you do not believe that I am, you will die in your sins.
So they said to him: Who are you? Jesus said to them: What have I been saying to you from the beginning?
I have a lot to say and judge about you, but the one who sent me is truthful; and I, the things that I heard from Him, these I say to the world.
They did not understand that I was talking about the Father.
That is why Jesus said: When you raise up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am and that I do nothing on my own, but speak these things as the Father taught me.
And the one who sent me is with me; He has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.
In speaking these things, many believed in Him.
Then Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you remain in my word, you are truly my disciples;
and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
They replied: We are descendants of Abraham and have never been slaves to anyone. How do you say: "You will be free"?
Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin;
and the slave does not stay in the house forever; the son does remain forever.
So if the Son sets you free, you will be really free.
I know that you are descendants of Abraham; and yet you try to kill me because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen with my Father; you, then, also do what you heard from your father.
They answered him and said: Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them *: If you are children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham.
But now you are trying to kill me, I have told you the truth that I heard from God. This Abraham did not do.
Ye do the deeds of your father. They said to him: We were not born of fornication; we have a Father, that is, God.
Jesus said to them: If God were your Father, you would love me, because I came from God and came from Him, since I did not come on my own initiative, but He sent me.
Why don't you understand what I'm saying? Because you can't hear my word.
You are from your father the devil and you want to make your father's wishes come true. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he has not stayed true because there is no truth in him. When he speaks lies, he speaks of his own nature, because he is a liar and the father of lies.
But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me.
Which one of you proves that I have sin? And if I say the truth, why don't you believe me?
He who is of God hears the words of God; therefore you do not listen, because you are not of God.
The Jews answered and said to him: Do we not rightly say that you are a Samaritan and that you have a demon?
Jesus replied: I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
But I do not seek my glory; there is One who seeks it, and judges.
Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death.
The Jews said to him: Now we do know that you have a demon. Abraham died, and so did the prophets, and you say, "If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death."
Are you perhaps greater than our father Abraham who died? The prophets also died; Who do you think you are?
Jesus replied: If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing; it is my Father who glorifies me, about whom you say: "He is our God".
And you have not known him, but I know him; And if I say that I don't know him, I will be a liar like you; but I do know him and keep his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced expecting to see my day; and he saw it and was glad.
This is why the Jews said to him: You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am.
So they took stones to throw at them, but Jesus hid himself and left the temple.