And after these things, Jesus walked through Galilee, because he did not want to walk in Judea, because the Jews tried to kill him.
And the feast of the Jews was near, that of the tabernacles.
And his brothers said to him: Get out of here and go to Judea, so that your disciples also see the works you do.
Because no one who tries to make himself known does something in secret. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.
For even his brothers did not believe in him.
Then Jesus said to them: My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you; but he hates me, because I bear witness to him that his works are evil.
You go up to the party; I have not yet come to that party, because my time has not yet been fulfilled.
And having said this to them, he remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers had gone up, then he also went up to the party, not openly, but as in secret.
And the Jews looked for him at the party and said: Where is that one?
And there was a great murmur about him among the people, for some said: He is good; but others said: No, but it deceives people.
However, none spoke openly about him, for fear of the Jews.
And in the middle of the feast, Jesus went up to the temple and taught.
And the Jews marveled, saying: How does this one know about letters, without having studied?
Jesus answered them and said: My doctrine is not mine, but the one that sent me.
Whoever wants to do his will will know if the doctrine is from God or if I speak for myself.
He who speaks for himself his own glory seeks; But he who seeks the glory of him who sent him, this is true, and there is no injustice in him.
Did not Moses give you the law, and none of you keep the law? Why are you trying to kill me?
The people answered and said: You have a devil; Who tries to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them: I did a work, and you all marvel.
So Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise the man.
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses is not broken, do you get angry with me because on the Sabbath I completely healed a man?
Do not judge according to appearances, but judge with fair judgment.
Then some of Jerusalem said: Is this not whom they seek to kill?
And behold, he speaks publicly, and they tell him nothing. Will the rulers have truly recognized that this is the Christ?
But this, we know where it is from; but when the Christ comes, nobody will know where he is from.
Then Jesus raised his voice in the temple, teaching and saying: You know me and you know where I am from; I did not come by myself, but the one who sent me, whom you do not know, is true.
I know him, because I come from him, and he sent me.
So they tried to catch him; but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come.
And many of the people believed in him and said: The Christ, when he comes, will he make more signs than what he does?
The Pharisees heard people murmuring these things about him; Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent guards to arrest him.
And Jesus said: I will still be with you a little while, and I will go to the one who sent me.
You will seek me and you will not find me; And where I am, you cannot go.
Then the Jews said among themselves: Where will this man go that we will not find him? Should one go to the scattered among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks?
What does this mean that he said: You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you will not be able to go?
But on the last and great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and raised his voice, saying: If anyone thirsts, come to me and drink.
Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture says, rivers of living water will flow from within him.
(And this he said of the Spirit that those who believed in him were to receive; for the Holy Ghost had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.)
Then some of the crowd, having heard these words, said: Truly this is the prophet.
Others said: This is the Christ. But some said: Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
Doesn't Scripture say that from the line of David, and from the village of Bethlehem, where David was from, the Christ will come?
So there was dissension among the people because of him.
And some of them wanted to catch him, but no one took him.
And the guards came to the chief priests and the Pharisees; And these said to them: Why did you not bring him?
The guards replied: No man has ever spoken like this man!
Then the Pharisees answered them: Have you also been deceived?
Has any of the rulers or the Pharisees believed in him?
But these people who don't know the law, damn it.
Nicodemus (the one who came to him at night and was one of them) said to them:
Does our law judge a man if he is not first heard and understood what he has done?
They answered and said to him, Are you also a Galilean? Search and see that a prophet has never risen from Galilee.
And each one went home.