And a certain man named Lazarus, from Bethany, the village of Mary and his sister Martha, was sick.
Mary, whose brother Lazarus was ill, was the one who anointed the Lord with perfume and dried his feet with his hair.
The sisters then sent Jesus to say: Lord, look, the one you love is sick.
When Jesus heard it, he said: This disease is not for death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
And Jesus loved Martha, her sister, and Lazarus.
When he heard that Lazarus was sick, then he stayed two more days in the place where he was.
Then after this he said * to his disciples: Let's go back to Judea.
The disciples * said to him, "Rabbi, recently the Jews were trying to stone you, and are you going there again?"
Jesus replied: Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks during the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
But if anyone walks at night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
He said this, and after this he added: Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I'm going to wake him up.
The disciples then said to him: Lord, if you have fallen asleep, you will recover.
But Jesus had spoken of the death of Lazarus, but they believed that he was speaking literally of the dream.
So Jesus therefore said clearly to them: Lazarus is dead;
and for your sakes I am glad I was not there, that you may believe; but let's go to where he is.
Thomas, called Didymus, then said to his fellow disciples: We too are going to die with Him.
So Jesus came and found that he had been in the tomb for four days.
Bethany was near Jerusalem, about three kilometers;
and many of the Jews had come to the house of Martha and Mary, to console them for the death of their brother.
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet her, but Mary remained at home.
And Martha said to Jesus: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
Even now, I know that whatever you ask of God, God will grant it to you.
Jesus said to him *: Your brother will rise again.
Martha answered him *: I know that he will rise in the resurrection, in the last day.
Jesus said to him: I am the resurrection and the life; He who believes in me, even if he dies, will live,
and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this
She said to him *: Yes, Lord; I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who comes into the world.
And having said this, he went and called his sister Maria, secretly saying: The Master is here, and he calls you.
As soon as she heard it, she quickly got up * and went to Him.
For Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha had found him.
So when the Jews who were with her in the house comforting her, when they saw that Mary got up quickly and left, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to cry there.
When Mary came to where Jesus was, when she saw him, she threw herself at his feet, saying to him: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
And when Jesus saw her crying, and the Jews who came with her crying too, he was deeply moved in the spirit, and was saddened,
and said: Where did you put it? They said to him, "Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
So the Jews said: Look how she loved him.
But some of them said: Couldn't this man, who opened the blind man's eyes, also have prevented Lazarus from dying?
Then Jesus, again deeply moved within, went * to the grave. It was a cave, and it had a stone placed on it.
Jesus said *: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the one who had died, said to him: "Sir, it already stinks, because he died four days ago."
Jesus said to him *: Did I not tell you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God?
Then they removed the stone. Jesus lifted up his eyes and said: Father, I thank you because you heard me.
I knew you always hear me; But I said it because of the crowd around me, so that they believe that you have sent me.
Having said this, he cried out with a loud voice: Lazarus, come outside!
And the dead man came out, his feet and hands bound with bandages, and his face wrapped in a shroud. Jesus said to them *: Loose him, and let him go.
This is why many of the Jews who had come to see Mary, and saw what Jesus had done, believed in Him.
But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees called a council, and said: What do we do? Because this man does many signs.
If we let him continue like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation.
But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them: You don't know anything,
nor do you bear in mind that it is more convenient for you that a man die for the people, and not that the whole nation perish.
Now, he did not say this on his own initiative, but being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation;
and not only for the nation, but also to reunite in one the scattered children of God.
So from that day on they planned each other to kill him.
So Jesus was no longer publicly walking among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the desert, to a city called Ephraim; and he stayed there with the disciples.
And the Jews' Passover was at hand, and many from the region went up to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves.
So they looked for Jesus, and while they were in the temple, they said to each other: What do you think? Who won't come to the party?
And the chief priests and Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where Jesus was, he should give notice to arrest him.