After this, Jesus manifested himself again to his disciples in the Tiberian Sea. It was stated in this way:
Together were Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, Nathanael who was from Cana of Galilee, the sons of Zebedee and two other of his disciples.
Simon Peter said to them, "I'm going to fish." They said to him, "Let's go with you too." They got out and got into the boat, but that night they got nothing.
At dawn, Jesus appeared on the beach, although the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them, "Little children, have you nothing to eat?" They replied, "No.
He said to them, "Drop the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find." So they threw her out and they couldn't get her out because of the large number of fish.
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter: —It is the Lord! When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on the cloak, since he had taken it off, and threw himself into the sea.
The other disciples arrived with the boat, dragging the net with the fish because they were not far from land but about a hundred meters away.
When they went ashore, they saw embers laid with fish on top, and bread.
Jesus said to them, "Bring the fish that you have now caught."
Then Simon Peter went up and brought down the net full of big fish, one hundred and fifty-three of them, and although there were so many, the net did not break.
Jesus said to them, "Come, eat." None of the disciples dared to ask him: "Who are you?", Because they knew it was the Lord.
So Jesus came and took the bread and gave them; and he also did the same with the fish.
This was the third time that Jesus manifested Himself to His disciples after He rose from the dead.
When they had eaten, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon son of Jonah, do you love me more than these?" He said, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you. Jesus said to him, "Feed my lambs.
He said to him a second time, "Simon son of Jonah, do you love me?" He replied: —Yes, Lord; you know I love you [b]. Jesus said to him, "Shepherd my sheep."
He said to him a third time, "Simon son of Jonah, do you love me [c]?" Peter was saddened that I said to him a third time: "Do you love me [d]?" And he said to him, "Sir, you know all things." You know I love you [e]. Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep.
Truly, truly, I tell you that when you were younger, you would gird yourself and go where you wanted; but when you are old you will extend your hands and another will gird you and take you where you do not want.
This he said pointing out with what death Peter was to glorify God. After saying this he said, "Follow me."
Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following. It was the same one that leaned on his chest at dinner and said: "Lord, who is it that is going to deliver you?"
So when Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this one?"
Jesus said to him, "If I want him to stay until I come, what does this have to do with you?" Follow me.
So this saying was spread among the brothers that that disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die, but: "If I want him to stay until I come, what does that have to do with you?"
This is the disciple who testifies to these things and wrote them down. And we know that his testimony is true.
There are also many other things that Jesus did that, if they were written one by one, I think that the books to be written would not even fit in the world.