After this, Jesus went to the other side of the Sea of ​​Galilee, which is that of Tiberias.
And a great crowd followed him, because they saw the miracles he did in the sick.
And Jesus went up a mountain and sat there with his disciples.
And the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
And when Jesus looked up and saw that a large crowd had come to him, he said to Philip, "Where will we buy bread for these to eat?"
But this he said to prove him, because he knew what he was going to do.
Philip replied: Two hundred denarii of bread will not suffice for each of them to take a little.
One of his disciples, Andrés, brother of Simón Pedro, said to him:
Here is a boy who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what is this for so many?
Then Jesus said: Lay the people down. And there was a lot of grass in that place, and they lay down about five thousand men.
And Jesus took those loaves, and having given thanks, He distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to whom they were lying; He also distributed the fish as much as they wanted.
And when they were satisfied, he said to his disciples: Collect what is left, so that nothing is lost.
So they collected and filled twelve baskets with pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
Then those men, when they saw the miracle that Jesus had performed, said: Truly this is the prophet that was to come to the world.
But when Jesus understood that they were going to come to seize him and make him king, he went back to the mountain, alone.
And at nightfall, his disciples descended into the sea;
and entering a boat, they crossed the other side of the sea towards Capernaum. And it was already dark, and Jesus had not come to them.
And the sea was curling with a great wind that blew.
And when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and approaching the boat, and they were afraid.
But he said to them: I am; fear not!
They then welcomed him with pleasure in the boat, and immediately the boat reached the land where they were going.
The next day, the people on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there and that Jesus had not entered it with his disciples, but that his disciples had left alone.
But other boats had arrived from Tiberias next to the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
When the people saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they entered the boats and went to Capernaum, looking for Jesus.
And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when did you get here?
Jesus answered them and said: Verily, verily, I say to you that you seek me, not because you have seen miracles, but because you ate the bread and were satisfied.
Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father sealed this.
Then they said to him: What will we do to put into practice the works of God?
Jesus answered and said to them: This is the work of God: that you believe in the one he has sent.
Then they said to him, What sign then do you make, that we may see and believe you? What work do you do?
Our parents ate manna in the desert, as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
And Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
Because the bread of God is the one that descended from heaven and gives life to the world.
And they said to him: Lord, always give us this bread.
And Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life; He who comes to me will never be hungry; and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.
But I have already told you that, although you have seen me, you do not believe.
All that the Father gives me will come to me; And whoever comes to me I will not cast out.
Because I have come down from heaven, not to do my will, but the will of the one who sent me.
And this is the will of the Father who sent me: That what he has given me he should not lose, but he would raise him up on the last day.
And this is the will of the one who sent me: That everyone who sees the Son and believes in him has eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
Then the Jews murmured of him, because he had said: I am the bread that came down from heaven.
And they said: Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How, then, now does he say: From heaven I have come down?
And Jesus answered and said to them: Do not murmur among yourselves.
No one can come to me if the Father who sent me does not bring him; and I will raise him up at the last day.
It is written in the prophets: And all will be taught by God. So everyone who has heard the Father and learned from him comes to me.
Not that anyone has seen the Father, but he who comes from God has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you: He who believes in me has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
Your parents ate the manna in the desert and they are dead.
This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that whoever eats from it may not die.
I am the living bread that has come down from heaven; if anyone eats this bread, he will live forever; and the bread that I will give is my meat, which I will give for the life of the world.
Then the Jews contended among themselves, saying: How can this man give us his meat to eat?
And Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man or drink his blood, you have no life in you.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
Because my meat is truly food, and my blood is truly drink.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me and I in him.
Just as the living Father sent me, and I live for the Father, so the one who eats me will also live for me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like your parents, who ate the manna and died. Whoever eats this bread will live forever.
He said these things in the synagogue, teaching at Capernaum.
Then when they heard it, many of his disciples said: This word is hard; Who can hear it?
And Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmured about this, he said to them: Does this scandalize you?
So what if you saw the Son of Man go up to where he was first?
The spirit is the one that gives life; meat is of no use; the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life.
But there are some of you who don't believe. Because Jesus knew from the beginning who were those who did not believe and who was to deliver him.
And he said: That is why I have told you that no one can come to me, unless it is granted to him by the Father.
Since then, many of his disciples went back and were no longer with him.
Then Jesus said to the twelve: Do you also want to go?
And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life.
And we have believed and we know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them: Have I not chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
And he spoke of Judas Iscariot son of Simon, because this was the one who was going to deliver him, and he was one of the twelve.