"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs elsewhere, is a thief and a robber.
But the one who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
The doorkeeper opens to him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his sheep by name and leads them outside.
And when he takes out all his he goes before them; and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
But they will never follow the stranger; rather, they will flee from him because they do not know the voice of strangers. "
Jesus told them this figure, but they did not understand what He was saying.
Then Jesus spoke to them again: "Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door. If someone enters through me, they will be saved; He will go in, go out, and find pasture.
The thief comes only to steal, kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
But the employee, who is not the shepherd and to whom the sheep do not belong, sees the wolf coming, abandons the sheep and flees; and the wolf snatches and scatters the sheep.
He runs away because he is a wage earner and he doesn't care about the sheep.
I am the good shepherd and I know my sheep, and mine know me.
As the Father knows me, I also know the Father and lay down my life for the sheep.
"I also have other sheep that are not of this fold. I also need to bring them, and they will hear my voice. Thus there will be only one flock and one shepherd.
This is why the Father loves me, because I lay down my life to take it again.
No one takes it from me, but I put it on myself. I have power to put it and I have power to take it again. This commandment I received from my Father. "
There was division again among the Jews because of these words,
and many of them said: —Demon has and is beside himself. Why do they listen to it?
Others said: —These words are not those of a demoniac. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
The Feast of Dedication was then celebrated in Jerusalem. It was winter,
and Jesus walked in the temple through the portico of Solomon.
Then the Jews surrounded him and said, "How long will you hold us in suspense?" If you are the Christ, tell us openly.
Jesus answered them, "I have told you, and you do not believe." The works that I do in the name of my Father, these bear witness to me.
But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than everyone and no one can snatch them from the Father's hands.
I and the Father are one.
The Jews again took stones to stone him.
Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of these works do they stone me?
The Jews answered him: “We do not stone you for good work but for blasphemy and because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Jesus answered them: —It is not written in his law, "I said: You are gods"?
If you said "gods" to those to whom the word of God was addressed (and Scripture cannot be nullified),
Do you say: "You blaspheme" whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, because I said: "I am the Son of God"?
If I don't do the works of my Father, don't believe me.
But if I do them, even if they don't believe me, they believe the works so that they know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.
They tried again to take him prisoner but he got out of their hands.
And he returned to the other side of the Jordan, to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and he stayed there.
And many went to him and said: "Juan, in truth, made no sign but everything Juan said about this was true."
And many believed in him there.