As Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, to be born blind?
Jesus answered: Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but he is blind so that the works of God are manifested in him.
We must do the works of him who sent me while it is day; the night comes when nobody can work.
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Having said this, he spat on the ground, and made mud with the saliva and smeared the mud on his eyes,
and said to him: Go and wash in the pool of Siloe (which means, Envoy). So he went and washed and came back seeing.
Then the neighbors and those who had previously seen him as a beggar, said: Is not this the one who sat and begged?
Some said: He is; and others said: No, but it looks like him. He said: I am.
So they said to him: How were your eyes opened?
He replied: The man called Jesus made clay, he smeared it on my eyes and said: "Go to Siloé and wash yourself." So I went, washed, and received the sight.
And they said to him, Where is He? He said *: I don't know.
They brought * before the Pharisees the man who had been blind before.
And it was a Sabbath the day that Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then the Pharisees also asked him again how he had received his sight. And he said to them: He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see.
This is why some of the Pharisees said: This man does not come from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said: How can a sinful man do such signs? And there was division between them.
Then they said * again to the blind man: What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes? And he said: He is a prophet.
Then the Jews did not believe him that he had been blind, and that he had received sight, until they called the parents of the one who had received sight,
And they asked them, saying: Is this your son, the one you say was born blind? How come you see now?
His parents then answered them and said: We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
but how he sees now, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; How old he is, he will speak for himself.
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews; because the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that Jesus was the Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue.
So his parents said: He is old; ask him.
For the second time they called the man who had been blind and said: Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
Then he answered them: If he is a sinner, I do not know; I know one thing: that I was blind and now I see.
Then they said to him: What did he do to you? How did it open your eyes?
He answered them: I already told you and you did not listen; Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?
Then they insulted him and said to him: You are a disciple of that man; but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for him, we do not know where he is from.
The man answered and said to them: Well, there is something amazing in this, that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes.
We know that God does not hear sinners; but if someone fears God and does his will, he hears it.
From the beginning it has never been heard of anyone opening the eyes of a man born blind.
If it did not come from God, it could not do anything.
They answered and said to him: You were born entirely in sins, and do you teach us? And they threw him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he found him, he said to him, Do you believe in the Son of Man?
He answered and said: And who is it, Lord, so that I believe in Him?
Jesus said to him, Well, you have seen him, and the one who is talking to you is that one.
He then said: I believe, Lord. And she adored him.
And Jesus said: I came into this world for judgment; so that those who do not see may see, and so that those who see may become blind.
Some of the Pharisees who were with him heard this and said to him: Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them: If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now, because you say: "We see", your sin remains.