In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
She was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through her, and without her nothing was made that has been made.
In her was life, and life was the light of men.
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
There was a man sent by God whose name was John.
He came as a testimony, to bear witness to the light so that all would believe through him.
He was not the light but came to bear witness to the light.
That was the true light that illuminates every man who comes into the world.
He was in the world and the world was made through him, but the world did not know him.
He came to his own, but his own did not receive it.
But to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to be made children of God,
which were born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man but of God.
And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we contemplate his glory, like the glory of the only begotten Son of the Father, full of grace and truth.
John testified of him and proclaimed saying: "This is the one of whom I said: He who comes after me has become before me because he was first before me."
For from its fullness we all receive, and grace upon grace.
The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth have come to us through Jesus Christ.
No one has ever seen God; the only God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known.
This is the testimony of John when the Jews sent him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: "Who are you?"
He confessed and did not deny but confessed: "I am not the Christ."
And they asked him: "What then?" Are you Elijah? And he said: "I am not." "Are you the prophet?" And he answered: "No.
Then they said to him, "Who are you, so that we may respond to those who have sent us?" What do you say about yourself?
He said: —I am the voice of one who proclaims in the desert: "Straighten the way of the Lord," as the prophet Isaiah said.
And those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
They asked him and said, "Then why do you baptize if you are not the Christ, Elijah, or the Prophet?"
John answered them saying: —I baptize in water, but in your midst is one whom you do not know.
He is the one who comes after me, from whom I am not worthy to untie the shoe strap.
These things happened in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day, John saw Jesus coming towards him and said: —Here is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
This is the one about whom I said: "After me comes a man who has become before me because he was first before me."
I did not know him; But in order for him to be manifested to Israel, that is why I came baptizing in water.
John testified by saying, "I have seen the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and he rested on him."
I did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize in water told me: "He on whom you see the Spirit descend and pose on him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit."
I have seen it and I have testified that this is the Son of God.
The next day, John was again with two of his disciples.
When he saw Jesus walking by, he said: —Here is the Lamb of God!
The two disciples heard him speak and followed Jesus.
When Jesus turned around and saw that they were following him, he said to them: "What are you looking for?" And they said to him: "Rabbi," which means teacher, "where do you live?"
He said to them, "Come and see." Therefore they went and saw where he dwelt; And they stayed with him that day, because it was like four in the afternoon.
Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who had heard John and had followed Jesus.
This first found his brother Simon and said to him: —We have found the Messiah (which means Christ).
He took him to Jesus and, when he saw him, Jesus said to him: "You are Simon the son of Jonah. You will be called Cephas (which means stone).
The next day, Jesus wanted to leave for Galilee and found Philip. And Jesus said to him, "Follow me."
Felipe was from Betsaida, the city of Andrés and Pedro.
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found the one of whom Moses wrote in the Law and also in the Prophets: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
And Nathanael said to him, "Can there be something good about Nazareth?" Felipe said to him: "Come and see."
Jesus saw Nathanael coming towards him and said of him: —Here is a true Israelite in whom there is no deception!
Nathanael said to him, "Where do you know me from?" Jesus answered and said to him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
Nathanael replied, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God!" You are the king of Israel!
Jesus answered and said to him, "Do you believe because I told you:" I saw you under the fig tree "? You see greater things than these!
And he said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man."