After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
In Jerusalem, next to the gate of the Sheep, there is a pond with five porticos that in Hebrew is called Bethesda.
In them lay a multitude of sick, blind, lame and paralyzed

There was a certain man there who had been ill for thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying down and knew that he had already spent so much time like this, he asked him: "Do you want to be healed?"
The patient answered him: "Sir, I have no one to put me in the pond when the water is rough; and while I move, another descends before me.
Jesus said to him, "Get up, take your bed and go."
And immediately the man was healed, he took his bed and walked. And that day was Saturday.
Then the Jews said to the one who had been healed: "It is Saturday and it is not lawful for you to carry your bed."
But he answered them: —He who healed me, himself said to me: "Take your bed and walk."
Then they asked him: —Who is the man who said to you: "Take your bed and walk"?
But the one who had been healed did not know who it was, because Jesus had separated because there were many people in the place.
Then Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, “Behold, you have been healed; sin no more so that nothing worse happens to you.
The man left and declared to the Jews that Jesus was the one who had healed him.
For this reason the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did these things on the Sabbath.
But Jesus answered them: —My Father until now works; I also work.
For this reason the Jews even more tried to kill him, because he not only broke the Sabbath but also called God his own Father, making himself equal to God.
That is why Jesus answered and said to them: “Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself but what he sees the Father doing. Because everything he does, this is also done by the Son in the same way.
Because the Father loves the Son and shows him all the things that he himself does. And greater works than these will He show you, so that you will be amazed.
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to those he loves.
Because the Father does not judge anyone but he gave all the judgment to the Son
so that everyone honors the Son as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come to condemnation but has passed from death to life.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
For just as the Father has life in himself, so he gave the Son also to have life in himself.
And he also gave him authority to pass judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
Do not be amazed at this, for the hour will come when all who are in the graves will hear his voice
and those who did good for the resurrection of life but those who practiced evil for the resurrection of damnation will come out.
I can do nothing of myself. As I hear, I judge; And my judgment is fair because I do not seek my will but the will of the one who sent me.
"If I testify to myself, my testimony is not true.
He who testifies of me is another, and I know that the testimony he gives of me is true.
You sent messengers to John, and he has testified to the truth.
But I do not receive the testimony from the man; rather, I say this so that you may be saved.
He was a torch that burned and lit, and you wanted to rejoice for a bit in his light.
"But I have a greater testimony than that of John, because the works that the Father has given me to fulfill them, the same works that I do testify to me that the Father has sent me.
"And the Father who sent me has testified of me. But they have never heard his voice nor seen his appearance
nor have your word abiding in you; because you don't believe who he sent.
Search the Scriptures, because it seems to them that they have eternal life and they are the ones that testify of me.
And you don't want to come to me for life.
"I do not receive glory from men.
On the contrary, I know you that you do not have the love of God in you.
I have come in the name of my Father, and they do not receive me. If another came in his own name, they would receive him.
How can you believe? For receiving glory from one another do not seek the glory that comes from the one God.
"Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. There are those who accuse you: Moses, in whom they have put hope.
Because if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me.
But if you do not believe your writings, how will you believe my words?