Then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him.
The soldiers interwoven a crown of thorns and put it on his head. They dressed him in a purple cloak,
and they came to him and said to him: "Long live the king of the Jews! And they slapped him.
Pilate came out again and said to them, "Behold, I am bringing him outside so that they know that I find no crime in him."
Then Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them, "Here is the man!"
When the chief priests and guards saw him, they cried out, saying, "Crucify him!" Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, "Take it and crucify it because I find no crime in it."
The Jews answered him: —We have a law and, according to our law, he must die because he made himself the Son of God.
When Pilate heard this word, he was even more afraid.
He entered the Praetorium again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus did not give an answer.
Then Pilate said to him, "You are not speaking to me?" Don't you know that I have the authority to release you and I have the authority to crucify you?
Jesus answered, "You would have no authority against me if it were not given to you from above. For this reason, he who gave me to you has greater sin.
From then on Pilate tried to release him. But the Jews shouted saying, "If you release this, you are not a friend of Caesar." Everyone who becomes king opposes Caesar.
When Pilate heard these words, he took Jesus outside and sat in the court, in the place called The Pavement, and in Hebrew Gabata.
It was the day of the Preparation of the Passover, and like noon [a]. Then he said to the Jews, "Here is their king."
But they shouted saying: "Get out! Outside! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your king?" The chief priests replied, "We have no king but Caesar!"
And with this, then, he handed him over to be crucified. So they took Jesus,
and he went out carrying his cross to the place called the Skull, and in Hebrew Golgotha.
There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus was in the middle.
Pilate wrote and put on the cross a sign on which was written: JESUS ​​OF NAZARETH, KING OF THE JEWS.
Many of the Jews then read this sign, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city and the sign was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek.
The chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write:" King of the Jews "but:" He said: 'I am the king of the Jews.' "
Pilate replied, "What I have written I have written."
When the soldiers crucified Jesus they took his clothes and made four parts, one for each soldier. Also, they took the robe but the robe had no seam; it was woven whole from top to bottom.
This is why they said to each other: "Let's not break it; rather let us cast lots on it to see whose it will be. This happened to fulfill the Scripture that says: They divided my clothes among themselves and cast lots on my clothing [b]. And so did the soldiers.
Next to the cross of Jesus were his mother, the sister of his mother, Maria wife of Cleofas and María Magdalena.
When Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing next to her, he said to his mother, "Woman, here is your son."
Then he said to the disciple, "Here is your mother." And from that hour the disciple received her in his house.
After this, Jesus knowing that everything had already been completed, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, he said: —I am thirsty [c].
There was a jar full of vinegar there. Then they put a sponge soaked in vinegar on a hyssop and put it to his mouth.
When Jesus received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished!" And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.
So the Jews, because it was the day of Preparation and so that the bodies would not be left on the cross on the Sabbath (since it was the Great Sabbath), asked Pilate to break their legs and remove them.
Then the soldiers went and broke the legs of the first, and then the other who had been crucified with him.
But when they came to Jesus, as they saw him already dead, they did not break his legs;
but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear and blood and water came out instantly.
He who has seen it has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he is telling the truth so that you too may believe.
Because these things happened thus for the fulfillment of the Scripture that says: None of his bones will be broken.
Also another Scripture says: They will look at the one they pierced.
After this, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus although secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate to allow him to remove the body of Jesus. Pilate allowed it. Therefore he went and carried his body [f].
Nicodemus, who at first had come to Jesus at night, was also carrying a compound of myrrh and aloes about thirty-four kilos.
So they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with spices, according to the Jewish custom of burial.
In the place where he had been crucified there was a garden, and in the garden there was a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid.
There, then, because of the day of the Preparation of the Jews and because that tomb was near, they put Jesus.