After this, a feast of the Jews was celebrated, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And there is in Jerusalem, next to the door of the sheep, a pool that in Hebrew is called Bethesda and that has five porticos.
In these lay a multitude of sick, blind, lame and paralyzed people waiting for the movement of the water;
for an angel of the Lord came down from time to time into the pool and stirred the water; and the first who descended into the pond after the movement of the water, was cured of any illness he had.
And there was a man who had been sick for thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been in that condition for a long time, he said to him: "Do you want to be healed?
The sick man replied: Sir, I have no one to put me in the pond when the water is rough; and while I arrive, another one descends before me.
Jesus said to him *: Get up, take your mat and walk.
And instantly the man was healed, and he took his stretcher and started walking. And that day was a Sabbath.
So the Jews said to the one who was healed: It is the Sabbath, and you are not allowed to carry your mat.
But he answered them: The same one that healed me, said to me: "Take your mat and walk."
They asked him: Who is the man who said to you: "Take your mat and walk"?
But the one who had been healed did not know who he was, because Jesus had quietly withdrawn from the crowd that was in that place.
After this Jesus found him * in the temple and said to him: Look, you have been healed; sin no more, lest something worse happen to you.
The man left, and told the Jews that Jesus was the one who had healed him.
Because of this the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did these things on the Sabbath.
But He answered them: Until now my Father works, and I also work.
So, for this reason, the Jews even more tried to kill him, because he not only violated the Sabbath, but also called God his own Father, making himself equal to God.
So Jesus, answering, said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you that the Son cannot do anything on his own, except what he sees the Father doing; because everything that the Father does, that the Son also does in the same way.
For the Father loves the Son, and shows him everything that he himself does; and greater works than these will he show you, so that you may admire yourselves.
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so the Son also gives life to those whom He loves.
For even the Father does not judge anyone, but all judgment has been entrusted to the Son,
so that everyone honors the Son just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes the one who sent me has eternal life and does not come to condemnation, but has passed from death to life.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
For just as the Father has life in himself, so he also gave the Son to have life in himself;
and gave him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming when all who are in the graves will hear his voice,
And they will go out: those who did good, to resurrection of life, and those who practiced evil, to resurrection of judgment.
I cannot do anything on my initiative; As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I do not seek my will, but the will of the one who sent me.
If I only testify to myself, my testimony is not true.
Another is the one who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony he gives of me is true.
You have sent to ask John, and he has testified to the truth.
But the testimony that I receive is not from man; but I say this so that you may be saved.
He was the lamp that burned and lit, and you wanted to rejoice for a while in his light.
But the testimony that I have is greater than Juan's; because the works that the Father has given me to carry out, the same works that I do, bear witness to me, that the Father has sent me.
And the Father who sent me has testified of me. But you have never heard his voice or seen his appearance.
And you do not have his word abiding in you, because you do not believe in the one that he sent.
You examine the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and they are the ones that testify of me;
and you don't want to come to me so that you have life.
I do not receive glory from men;
but I know you, that you don't have the love of God in you.
I have come in the name of my Father and you do not receive me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive that one.
How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory that comes from the one God?
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have placed your hope.
Because if you believed Moses, you would believe me, because he wrote about me.
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?