In the beginning there was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing that was made was made.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not understand it.
A man sent by God, whose name was John, came into the world.
He came as a witness, to testify of the light, so that all would believe through him.
He was not the light, but came to bear witness to the light.
There was the true light that, when coming into the world, illuminates every man.
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him.
He came to his own, and his own did not receive him.
But to all who received him, he gave the right to become children of God, that is, those who believe in his name,
that they were not born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
John gave testimony of Him and cried out, saying: This was the one of whom I said: "He who comes after me is before me, because he was before me."
For of its fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
Because the law was given through Moses; grace and truth were made real through Jesus Christ.
No one has ever seen God; the only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has made him known.
This is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: Who are you?
And he confessed and did not deny; confessed: I am not the Christ.
And they asked him: So what? Are you Elijah? And he said *: I am not. Are you the prophet And he answered: No.
Then they said to him: Who are you ?, so that we can give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?
He said: I am THE VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "STRAIGHTEN THE WAY OF THE LORD," as the prophet Isaiah said.
Those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said to him: Then why do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?
John answered them, saying: I baptize in water, but among you is One whom you do not know.
He is the one who comes after me, whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his sandal.
These things happened in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day he saw * Jesus coming towards him, and said *: Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
This is the one about whom I said: "After me comes a man who is before me because he was before me."
And I did not know Him, but for Him to be manifested to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
John also bore testimony, saying: I have seen the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and fell upon Him.
And I did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize in water told me: "He on whom you see the Spirit descend and settle on Him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit."
And I have seen and testified to him that this is the Son of God.
The next day John was there again with two of his disciples,
and he saw Jesus passing by, and said *: Behold the Lamb of God.
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
Jesus turned and, seeing that they were following him, said to them, "What are you looking for? And they said to him: Rabbi (which translated means, Master), where are you staying?
He said to them *: Come and you will see. Then they went and saw where he was staying; and they stayed with him that day, because it was like the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard John and followed Jesus was Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter.
He first * found his brother Simon, and said to him *: We have found the Messiah (which translated means Christ).
Then he brought him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said: You are Simon, son of John; you will be called Cephas (which means: Peter).
The next day Jesus made up his mind to go out to Galilee, and found * Philip, and said to him, * Follow me.
Felipe was from Betsaida, from the city of Andrés and Pedro.
Philip * found Nathanael and said to him *: We have found the one of whom Moses wrote in the law, and also the prophets, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
And Nathanael said to him: Can something good come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him *: Come, and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming and said * of him: Behold a true Israelite in whom there is no deception.
Nathanael said to him *: How is it that you know me? Jesus answered him and said: Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
Nathanael replied: Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel.
Jesus answered and said to him: Because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You see greater things than these.
And he said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
