After this, Jesus was walking through Galilee. He did not want to walk around Judea because the Jews were looking for him to kill him.
The feast of the Tabernacles of the Jews was near.
Therefore, his brothers said to him, "Get out of here and go to Judea so that your disciples also see the works you do."
Because nobody who tries to make himself known does something in secret. Since you do these things, manifest yourself to the world.
For even his brothers did not believe in him.
Then Jesus said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always at hand."
The world cannot hate you but it hates me because I testify of it, that its works are bad.
You go up to the party. I have not yet come to this party because my time has not yet been fulfilled.
Having said this, he remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers had gone up to the party, then he also went up, not openly but secretly.
The Jews looked for him at the party and said: "Where's that one?"
There was a great gossip about him among the crowds. Some said, "It is good." But others said: "No, it deceives people".
However, no one spoke openly about him for fear of the Jews.
When the party was half over, Jesus went up to the temple and taught.
Then the Jews were amazed saying: —How does this one know about letters without having studied?
Therefore, Jesus answered them and said: “My doctrine is not mine but the one that sent me.
If someone wants to do his will, he will know if my doctrine comes from God or if I speak for myself.
He who speaks of himself seeks his own glory; But the one who seeks the glory of the one who sent him, this is true and in him there is no injustice.
Didn't Moses give you the Law? And none of you do it. Why are you seeking to kill me?
The crowd replied, "You got a devil." Who seeks to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them, "I did only one work, and everyone is amazed.
For this reason Moses gave them circumcision (not because it is from Moses but from the parents), and on the Sabbath they circumcise the man.
If the man receives circumcision on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses is not broken, do they get mad at me because on the Sabbath I healed a man completely?
Do not judge according to appearances, but judge fairly.
Then some of Jerusalem said: —Is this not the one they are looking to kill?
Behold, he speaks publicly and they tell him nothing! Could it be that the principals have really recognized that he is the Christ?
But this, we know where it is from; but when the Christ comes no one will know where he is from.
Then Jesus raised his voice in the temple, teaching and saying: "They know me and they know where I am from." And I have not come by myself; rather, the one who sent me, whom you do not know, is true.
I know him, because I come from him and he sent me.
So they tried to catch him, but nobody put his hand on him because his time had not yet come.
Many of the people believed in him and said: "When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than he did?"
The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent guards to take him prisoner.
Then Jesus said: —I will still be with you a little while; then I will go to the one who sent me.
They will look for me and they will not find me, and where I will be you will not be able to go.
Then the Jews said to each other: "Where is this man to go, that we do not find him?" Does he have to go to the dispersion among the Greeks to teach the Greeks?
What does this saying mean: "They will look for me and they will not find me, and they will not be able to go where I will be"?
But on the last and great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and raised his voice saying: "If anyone is thirsty, come to me and drink."
Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture says, rivers of living water will flow from within him.
This he said about the Spirit which those who believed in him were to receive, since the Spirit had not yet been given because Jesus had not yet been glorified.
So when some of the crowd heard these words, they said, "Truly, this is the prophet!"
Others said, "This is the Christ." But others said: "Will the Christ come from Galilee?
Doesn't Scripture say that the Christ will come from the descendants of David and from the village of Bethlehem, where David was from? "
So there was dissension among the people because of him.
Some of them wanted to take him prisoner, but no one took him.
Then the guards returned to the chief priests and the Pharisees, and they said, "Why didn't they bring him in?"
The guards replied, "No man like that ever spoke!"
Then the Pharisees answered them: "Is it possible that you too have been deceived?"
Has any of the leading ones or the Pharisees believed in him?
But these people who don't know the law are cursed.
Nicodemus, the one who went to Jesus at the beginning and who was one of them, said to them:
"Does a man judge our law if he is not heard first and what he does is understood?"
They answered him and said, "Are you also from Galilee?" Search and see that no prophet rises from Galilee.
[And each went home.