And on the third day some weddings were celebrated in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there.
And Jesus and his disciples were also invited to the wedding.
And lacking the wine, the mother of Jesus said to him: They have no wine.
And Jesus said to her, What have I to do with you, woman? My hour has not yet come.
His mother said to the servants: Do whatever he tells you.
And there were six stone water jars, according to the rite of purification of the Jews, in each of them fit two or three jugs.
Jesus said to them: Fill these jars with water. And they filled them up to the top.
Then he said to them, "Take it out now and take it to the master. And they took him away.
And when the master tasted the water made wine, without him knowing where it was from (although the servants who had taken the water did), the master called the groom
And he said to him: Every man serves the good wine first, and when they are satisfied, then the least; but you have kept the good wine until now.
This principle of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed in him.
After this, he and his mother and his brothers and his disciples went down to Capernaum; and they were there not many days.
And the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And he found in the temple those who sold oxen, sheep and doves, and the money changers sitting there.
And making a lash of ropes, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen; and he scattered the money of the money changers and overturned the tables.
And he said to those who sold the doves: Take this away from here and do not make my Father's house a market place!
Then his disciples remembered that it is written: The zeal of your house consumed me.
And the Jews answered and said to him, What sign do you show us, since you are doing this?
Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Then the Jews said: In forty-six years this temple was built, and in three days will you raise it up?
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
Therefore, when he rose from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed in Scripture and in the words that Jesus had said.
And being in Jerusalem at Passover, on the feast day, many believed in his name, seeing the miracles he did.
But Jesus himself did not trust them, because he knew them all,
and he had no need of anyone to bear witness to him about men, for he knew what was in man.