So then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers interwoven a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and clothed him in a purple robe;
and they said to him: Hail, King of the Jews! And they slapped him.
Then Pilate came out again and said to them, "Behold, I am bringing you outside so that you understand that I find no crime in him."
And Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them, Behold the man!
And when the chief priests and the guards saw him, they cried out saying: Crucify him! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, Take him and crucify him, for I find no crime in him.
The Jews answered him: We have a law and, according to our law, he must die, because he made himself the Son of God.
And when Pilate heard these words, he was even more afraid.
And he entered the praetorium again and said to Jesus: Where are you from? But Jesus did not give an answer.
Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not speak to me? Don't you know that I have the authority to crucify you and that I have the authority to release you?
Jesus answered: You would have no authority against me if it were not given to you from above; therefore, the one who has given you greater sin has.
From then on Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying: If you let this go, you are not a friend of Caesar, because everyone who makes himself king is against Caesar.
Then Pilate, hearing these words, took Jesus outside and sat in the court, in the place called the Paved, and in Hebrew, Gabata.
And it was the preparation for Easter, and about the sixth hour. Then he said to the Jews: Behold your King!
But they cried out: Get out! Outside! Crucify Him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered: We have no king but Caesar.
So then he handed him over to be crucified. And they took Jesus and took him away.
And Jesus, carrying his cross, went out to the place called the Skull, and in Hebrew, Golgotha,
where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle.
And Pilate also wrote a title, which he put on the cross. And the writing said: JESUS ​​OF NAZARETH, KING OF THE JEWS.
And many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.
And the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write: King of the Jews, but he said, I am king of the Jews.
Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.
And when the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his clothes and made four parts, one for each soldier; and they also took the robe, but the robe was seamless, all woven from top to bottom.
And they said among themselves, Let us not break it, but cast lots on it, to see whose it shall be; so that the Scripture could be fulfilled, which says: They divided my clothes among themselves, and cast lots on my clothing. And the soldiers did this.
And they were next to the cross of Jesus their mother, and the sister of their mother, Maria wife of Cleofas, and María Magdalena.
And when Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved, who was present, he said to his mother: Woman, behold, your son.
Then he said to the disciple: Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple received her in his house.
After this, Jesus knowing that everything had already been completed, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, he said: I am thirsty.
And there was a jar full of vinegar; Then they soaked a sponge in the vinegar, and putting it on a hyssop, they brought it to their mouths.
And when Jesus took the vinegar, he said: It is finished! And bowing his head he gave up his spirit.
So the Jews, because it was the preparation of the Passover, so that the bodies did not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (because that Sabbath was very solemn), asked Pilate to break their legs and take them away. thence.
And the soldiers went and broke the legs of the first, and likewise the other who had been crucified with him.
But when they came to Jesus, as they saw him already dead, they did not break his legs.
But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
And the one who saw him testifies, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you too may believe.
For these things happened that the Scripture might be fulfilled: His bone shall not be broken.
And also another Scripture says: They will look at the one they pierced.
After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate to allow him to take the body of Jesus; and Pilate allowed it. So he went and took the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus, the one who had visited Jesus by night, also came, bringing a compound of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds.
So they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with spices, as it is customary to bury among the Jews.
And in that place where he had been crucified, there was a garden; and in the garden a new grave, in which no one had yet been laid.
There, then, because of the preparation of the Passover of the Jews, and because that tomb was near, they put Jesus.