But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives,
and very early in the morning he returned to the temple. All the people came to him and sat down, taught them.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees brought him a woman caught in adultery and, putting her in the middle,
They said to him: "Master, this woman has been caught in the same act of adultery.
Now, in the law Moses commanded us to stone such. So what do you say?
This was said to prove him, to have something to accuse him of. But Jesus, bent towards the ground, wrote on the earth with his finger.
But, as they insisted on asking him, he straightened up and said to them: "The one of you who is without sin be the first to throw the stone at her."
As he leaned down again, he wrote on the ground.
But when they heard it, they came out one by one starting with the oldest. Only Jesus and the woman remained, who was in the middle.
Then Jesus straightened up and asked her, "Woman, where are you?" Has none condemned you?
And she said, "None, Lord." Then Jesus said to him, "Nor do I condemn you." Go away and, from now on, sin no more]. Jesus' Evidence of Himself
Jesus spoke to the Pharisees again saying: —I am the light of the world. He who follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to him, "You testify of yourself; your testimony is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them, "Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true because I know where I came from and where I am going." But you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
You judge according to the flesh but I do not judge anyone.
And even if I judge, my judgment is true because it is not me alone but me and the Father who sent me.
It is written in your law that the testimony of two men is true.
I am the one who testifies of myself, and the Father who sent me also testifies of me.
Then they said to him: "Where is your Father?" Jesus answered: —Neither do they know me, nor my Father. If they had known me, they would also have known my Father.
These words Jesus spoke teaching in the temple at the place of offerings; and no one caught him because his hour had not yet come.
Then Jesus said to them again: —I am going away, and they will look for me; but in their sin they will die. Where I am going you cannot go.
Then the Jews said: "Is it possible that he must kill himself?" Well, it says: "Where I am going, you cannot go."
He said to them: —You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.
This is why I told them that they will die in their sins; for unless they believe that I am, they will die in their sins.
So they said to him, "Who are you?" Then Jesus said to them, "The same thing that I have been saying to you from the beginning."
I have many things to say and judge about you. But the one who sent me is true; And I, what I have heard from him, speak to the world.
But they did not understand that I was talking about the Father.
Then Jesus said to them: —When you have raised up the Son of Man, then you will understand that I am, and that I do nothing of myself but that I speak these things just as the Father taught me.
Because the one who sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone because I always do what pleases him.
While he was saying these things, many believed in him.
Therefore, Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: —If you remain in my word, you will truly be my disciples;
and they will know the truth, and the truth will set them free.
They replied, "We are descendants of Abraham and have never been slaves to anyone." How do you say: "They will become free"?
Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin."
The slave does not stay in the house forever; the Son does remain forever.
So if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free.
I know that they are descendants of Abraham; nevertheless, they try to kill me because my word has no place in you.
I speak of what I have seen being with the Father, and you do what you have heard from your father.
They answered and said to him, "Our father is Abraham." Jesus said to them, "Since you are the children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham.
But now they are trying to kill me, a man who has told them the truth that I heard from God. This Abraham did not do!
You do the works of your father. Then they said to him, "We were not born of sexual immorality." We have only one father, God.
Then Jesus said to them, "If God were your father, they would love me; because I have come out and I have come from God. I did not come by myself but he sent me.
Why don't you understand what I'm saying? Because they can't hear my word.
You are from your father the devil, and you want to satisfy your father's wishes. He was a murderer from the beginning and was not based on truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaks lies, he speaks of his own because he is a liar and the father of lies.
But to me, because I tell them the truth, they don't believe me.
Which of you finds me guilty of sin? And if I tell the truth, why don't you believe me?
He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you do not listen to them, because they are not from God.
The Jews answered and said to him, "Do we not say correctly that you are a Samaritan and that you have a devil?"
Jesus answered: —I have no demon. Rather, I honor my Father; but you dishonor me.
I do not seek my glory; there are those who seek and judge it.
Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death forever.
Then the Jews said to him, "Now we know that you have a devil!" Abraham died, and also the prophets; And you say: "If anyone keeps my word, he will never like death forever."
Are you greater than our father Abraham who died, or the prophets who also died? Who do you pretend to be?
Jesus answered: —If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. He who glorifies me is my Father, of whom you say: "He is our God."
And you don't know him. But I do know him. If I say I don't know him, I will be a liar like you. But I know him and I keep his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and rejoiced.
Then the Jews said to him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?"
Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you that before Abraham existed, I am."
So they took stones to throw at them, but Jesus hid himself and left the temple.