Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house there are many dwellings; if it were not so, I would have told you; because I'm going to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you with me; so that where I am, you are also there.
And you know the way where I am going.
Thomas said to him *: Lord, if we don't know where you are going, how are we going to know the way?
Jesus said to him *: I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father except through me.
If you had known me, you would also have known my Father; from now on you know him and have seen him.
Philip * said to him: Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him *: Have I been with you for so long, and you still don't know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; How do you say: "Show us the Father"?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own, but the Father who lives in me is the one who does the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and if not, believe for the works themselves.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do he will do also; and even greater than these will he do, because I go to the Father.
And whatever you ask in my name, I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask me for something in my name, I will do it.
If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
And I will pray to the Father, and He will give you another Comforter to be with you forever;
that is, the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees nor knows him, but you do know him because he dwells with you and will be in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I will come to you.
A little more time and the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me; Because I live, you will also live.
On that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
He who has my commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves me; and he who loves me will be loved by my Father; and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
Judas (not the Iscariot) said to him *: Lord, and what happened that you are going to manifest yourself to us and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him: If anyone loves me, he will keep my word; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our abode with him.
He who does not love me does not keep my words; And the word you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me.
These things I have said to you, being with you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything I have told you.
Peace I leave you, my peace I give you; I do not give it to you as the world gives it. Not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
You heard that I said to you: "I am going away, and I will come to you". If you loved me, you would rejoice because I go to the Father, since the Father is older than me.
And I have told you now, before it happens, so that when it happens, you believe.
I will not speak much more with you, because the prince of this world comes, and he has nothing in me;
but so that the world knows that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, so I do. Get up, let's get out of here.