Before the feast of the Passover, Jesus knowing that his time had come to pass from this world to the Father, as he had loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
During dinner, as the devil had already placed in the heart of Judas son of Simon Iscariot to deliver him,
and Jesus knowing that the Father had put all things in his hands and that he had left God and was going to God,
got up from dinner; He took off his cloak and, taking a towel, he clung to it.
Then he poured water into a bowl and began to wash the disciples' feet and dry them with the towel with which he was girded.
Then he came to Simon Peter and he said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"
Jesus answered and said to him: "What I do you do not understand now but you will understand later.
Pedro said to him: "You will never wash my feet!" Jesus replied, "If I don't wash you, you have no part with me."
Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, then, not only my feet but also my hands and my head."
Jesus said to him, "He who has washed himself has no need to wash himself but his feet, for he is all clean." You are already clean, although not all.
Because he knew who was delivering it, that's why he said: "Not everyone is clean."
So, after having washed their feet, he took his cloak, sat down at the table and said to them: "Do you understand what I have done to you?"
You call me Master and Lord and say well, because I am.
Well, if I, the Lord and the Master, wash your feet, you must also wash each other's feet.
Because I have given you an example so that, as I did it to you, you too.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the servant is not greater than his master, nor is the apostle greater than the one who sent him.
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
I don't mean all of you like that. I know who I have chosen; but for the fulfillment of the Scripture: He who eats bread with me [a] lifted his heel [b] against me.
From now on I tell you, before it happens, so that when it happens you will believe that I Am.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
After saying this, Jesus was moved in spirit and testified saying, "Truly, truly, I tell you, one of you is going to deliver me."
Then the disciples looked at each other doubting who they were talking about.
One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was sitting at the table next to Jesus.
Simon Peter motioned to him to ask who the one he was talking about was.
Then he, leaning on Jesus' chest, said to him, "Lord, who is it?"
Jesus answered: —He is the one for whom I dip the bite and give it to him. Soaking the mouthful, he took it and gave it to Judas the son of Simon Iscariot.
After the bite, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him, "What you are doing, do it soon.
None of those at the table understood why he said this
because some thought, since Judas had the bag, that Jesus said to him: "Buy what we need for the feast", or that he gave something to the poor.
When she took the bite, he left immediately; and it was already night.
When Judas had gone out, Jesus said, "Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself. And it will soon glorify him.
Little children, I'm still a bit with you. They will look for me but, as I said to the Jews: "Where I am going you cannot go", so I say to you now.
"A new commandment I give you: love one another. As I have loved you, love one another also.
In this they will all know that they are my disciples: if they have love for each other.
Simon Peter said to him, "Sir, where are you going?" Jesus answered him, "Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow me later."
Peter said to him, "Sir, why can't I follow you now?" I will lay down my life for you!
Jesus answered him, "Will you lay down your life for me?" Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow before you have denied me three times.