And there was a man from the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This came to Jesus at night and said to him: “Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher because nobody can do these signs that you do unless God is with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, one cannot see the kingdom of God."
Nicodemus said to him, "How can a man be born if he is old?" Can he enter his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered, "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and of the Spirit, one cannot enter the kingdom of God."
What is born of the flesh is flesh; and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Do not marvel that I told you: "It is necessary for them to be born again."
The wind blows where it wants, and you hear its sound but you don't know where it comes from or where it goes. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said, "How can that happen?"
Jesus answered and said to him, "You are the teacher of Israel, and don't you know this?"
Truly, truly, I tell you, we are talking about what we know; and we testify of what we have seen. But you do not receive our testimony.
If I spoke to you of earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I speak to you of heavenly things?
No one has ascended to heaven except the one who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so it is necessary for the Son of Man to be raised up
so that everyone who believes in him will have eternal life.
"Because God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
Because God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world but so that the world would be saved by him.
Whoever believes in him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has already been condemned because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation: that light has come into the world, and men loved darkness more than light because their works were evil.
Because everyone who practices evil hates light and does not come to light so that his works are not censored.
But the one who does the truth comes to the light so that his works are manifest that they are done in God.
After this, Jesus went with his disciples to the land of Judea; and spent time there with them and baptized.
John was also baptizing in Aenon, next to Salim, because there was a lot of water there; and many came and were baptized
since Juan had not yet been put in jail.
Then a discussion arose between John's disciples and a Jew about purification.
They went to John and said to him, "Rabbi, the one who was with you on the other side of the Jordan, of whom you have borne witness, behold, he is baptizing, and all are going to him!"
John answered and said, "No man can receive anything unless it has been given to him from heaven."
You yourselves witness that I said: "I am not the Christ but I have been sent before him."
He who has the bride is the groom; but the groom's friend, who has been standing and listening to him, is very happy because of the groom's voice. So this my joy has been fulfilled.
It is necessary for him to grow, but for me to decrease.
He who comes from above is above all. He who comes from the earth is earthly and his speech comes from the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
He testifies of what he has seen and heard, and no one receives his testimony.
He who receives his testimony testifies that God is truthful.
Because the one that God sent speaks the words of God because God does not give the Spirit by measure.
The Father loves the Son and has put all things in his hand.
He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who disobeys the Son will not see life but the wrath of God remains on him.