As Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth,
And his disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, so that he was born blind?"
Jesus answered: “It is not that he sinned, nor did his parents. On the contrary, it was for the works of God to be manifested in him.
It is necessary for me to do the works of the one who sent me while the day lasts. The night comes when no one can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Saying this, he spat on the ground, made mud with saliva, and smeared the blind man's eyes with the mud.
And he said to him, "Go wash in the pool at Siloe (which means sent)." So he went, washed, and came back seeing.
Then the neighbors and those who had seen him before who was a beggar said: —Isn't this the one who sat down to beg?
Some said, "This is it." And others: "No." But it looks like him. He said: "I am."
Then they said to him: "How did your eyes open?"
He answered: —The man called Jesus made mud, smeared my eyes and said: "Go to Siloé and wash yourself." So when I went and washed, I received the sight.
And they said to him, "Where is he?" He said, "I don't know.
They brought before the Pharisees the once blind man,
Because the day Jesus made mud and opened his eyes was Saturday.
Then the Pharisees asked him again how he had received his sight, and he said to them, "He put mud on my eyes, I washed and I see."
Then some of the Pharisees said: —This man is not of God because he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, "How can a sinful man make such signs?" There was a division between them.
Then they spoke to the blind man again: "What do you say about him, since he opened your eyes?" And he said, "That he is a prophet."
The Jews, then, did not believe that he had been blind and had received sight until they called the parents of the one who had received sight
And they asked them, saying: "Is this your son, the one you say was born blind?" How, then, do you see now?
His parents answered and said: —We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
But how he sees now, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we don't know either. Age is; ask him and he will speak on his own.
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, because the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that Jesus was the Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue.
For this reason his parents said: "He is old; ask him."
So a second time, they called the man who had been blind and said, "Give glory to God! We know that this man is a sinner.
Then he replied, "If you are a sinner, I don't know." One thing I know: that, having been blind, I now see.
Then they said to him, "What did he do to you?" How did it open your eyes?
He answered them: —I already told them and they didn't listen. Why do they want to hear it again? Do you also want to become your disciples?
Then they outraged him and said, "You are a disciple of him!" But we are disciples of Moses!
We know that God has spoken through Moses, but he does not know where he is from.
The man answered and said: —Well, in this we do have a wonderful thing! That you do not know where he is from, and he opened my eyes.
We know that God does not hear sinners; but if someone is fearful of God and does his will, he hears.
From eternity, no one was ever heard to open the eyes of one who had been born blind.
If it did not come from God, it could not do anything.
They answered him saying: —You were born sinned, and you want to teach us? And they threw him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he found him, he said to him, "Do you believe in the Son of Man?"
He answered and said, "Lord, who is it that I believe in him?"
Jesus said to him, "You have seen him, and he who speaks to you is him."
And he said: "I believe, Lord!" And adored him.
And Jesus said: —For judgment I have come into this world; so that those who do not see may see, and those who see may be made blind.
Hearing this, some of the Pharisees who were with him said to him, "Are we also blind?"
Jesus said to them, "If you were blind you would have no sin; but now, because they say, "We see," their sin remains.