Jesus spoke of these things and, raising his eyes to heaven, said: "Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son so that the Son [a] glorifies you,
just as you gave authority over every man to [b] give eternal life to all whom you have given him.
And this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
I have glorified you on earth, having finished the work that you have given me to do.
Now, Father, glorify me in your very presence with the glory that I had in your presence before the world existed.
"I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me; and they have kept your word.
Now they have known that everything you have given me comes from you
Because I have given them the words that you gave me, and they received them and truly knew that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me.
"I pray for them. I do not pray for the world but for those you have given me, because they are yours.
All mine is yours, and all yours is mine; and I have been glorified in them.
I am no longer in the world but they are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name that you have given me, so that they may be one just as we are.
When I was with them [c], I kept them in your name that you have given me. And I took care of them, and none of them was lost except the son of perdition so that the Scripture would be fulfilled [d].
But now I come to you and speak this in the world so that you have my full joy in yourself.
"I have given you your word, and the world hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
I do not ask you to remove them from the world but to keep them from the evil one.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in truth; Your word is truth.
Just as you sent me into the world, I have also sent them into the world.
For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified through the truth.
"But I do not pray only for these but also for those who are to believe in me through their word;
that they may all be one like you, Father, in me and I in you, that they also may be [e] in us; so that the world believes that you sent me.
I have given them the glory that you have given me to be one, just as we are one.
I in them and you in me, so that they are perfectly united; so that the world knows that you have sent me, and that you have loved them as well as you have loved me.
"Father, I want that where I am, those who you have given me may also be with me so that they see my glory that you have given me, because you have loved me since before the foundation of the world.
Just father, the world has not known you but I have known you, and these have known that you sent me.
I have made your name known to them and I will still make it known to them, so that the love with which you have loved me is in them, and I in them. "