Then Jesus, six days before Easter, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
And they made him a dinner there, and Marta served; but Lazarus was one of those who were at the table with Him.
Then Mary, taking a pound of perfume of pure tuberose that cost a lot, anointed the feet of Jesus, and dried them with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
And Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, the one who was going to deliver him, said *:
Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
But he said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and since he had the money bag, he stole from what was put into it.
Then Jesus said, "Leave her alone, that I may save her for the day of my burial."
Because you will always have the poor with you; but you won't always have me.
Then the great multitude of Jews found out that Jesus was there; and they came not only because of Jesus, but also because of seeing Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
But the main priests resolved to kill Lazarus as well;
because because of him many of the Jews turned away and believed in Jesus.
The next day, when the large crowd that had come to the party, heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
they took leaves from the palms and came out to meet him, and they shouted: Hosanna! BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD, the King of Israel.
Jesus, finding a donkey, got on it; as it is written:
FEAR NOT, DAUGHTER OF SION; BEHOLD, YOUR KING IS COMING, RIDING ON AN ASS'S CHICK.
His disciples did not understand this at first, but later, when Jesus was glorified, they then remembered that this had been written about Him, and that they had done these things to Him.
And so the crowd that was with Him when he called Lazarus from the grave and raised him from the dead, bore witness to Him.
So the crowd also came to receive Him, because they had heard that He had made this sign.
So the Pharisees said to each other: Do you see that you achieve nothing? Look, everyone has gone after Him.
And there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the party;
These, then, went to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying: Lord, we want to see Jesus.
Felipe went * and told * Andrés; Andrew and Philip went * and told * Jesus.
Jesus answered them *, saying: The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Truly, truly, I tell you that if the grain of wheat does not fall to the ground and die, it remains alone; but if it dies, it produces much fruit.
He who loves his life loses it; and he who hates his life in this world will preserve it for eternal life.
If anyone serves me, let him follow me; And where I am, there will also be my server; if anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
Now my soul has been distressed; And what shall I say: "Father, save me from this hour"? But for this I have come to this hour.
Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven: And I have glorified him, and again I will glorify him.
So the crowd that was there and heard it said that it had been thunder; others said: An angel has spoken to him.
Jesus answered and said: This voice has not come because of me, but because of you.
The judgment of this world is here; now the prince of this world will be cast out.
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw everyone to myself.
But He said this to indicate what kind of death He was going to die of.
Then the crowd answered him: We have heard in the law that the Christ will remain forever; And how do you say: "The Son of Man has to be lifted up?" Who is this Son of Man?
Jesus then said to them: Still, for a little while, the light will be among you. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness does not surprise you; he who walks in the dark does not know where he is going.
While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may be children of the light. These things Jesus spoke, and went away and hid himself from them.
But even though he had made so many signs before them, they did not believe in him,
so that the word of the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, who said: LORD, WHO HAD BELIEVED OUR ADVERTISEMENT? AND TO WHOM HAS THE LORD'S ARM BEEN REVEALED?
So they could not believe, because Isaiah also said:
HE HAS BLINDED HIS EYES AND HARDENED HIS HEART, SO THAT THEY DO NOT SEE WITH THE EYES AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND THEY ARE CONVERTED AND I HEAL THEM.
This Isaiah said because he saw his glory, and spoke of Him.
However, many, even of the rulers, believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so as not to be expelled from the synagogue.
Because they loved the recognition of men more than the recognition of God.
Jesus exclaimed and said: He who believes in me does not believe in me, but in him who sent me.
And he who sees me sees him who sent me.
I, the light, have come into the world, so that everyone who believes in me does not remain in darkness.
If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; because I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
He who rejects me and does not receive my words has someone to judge him; the word that I have spoken, that will judge in the final day.
Because I have not spoken on my own, but the Father himself who has sent me has given me a commandment on what to say and what to speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life; therefore what I speak, I speak just as the Father has told me.