And Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
And in the morning he returned to the temple, and all the people came to him; and sitting he taught them.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees brought him a woman caught in adultery; and putting it in the middle,
They said to him: Master, this woman has been caught in the very act of adultery;
and in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women; so what do you say?
But this they said, tempting him, to have something to accuse him of. But Jesus, bent towards the ground, wrote on the earth with his finger.
And when they insisted on asking him, he straightened up and said to them: He who is without sin among you, let him throw the stone at her first.
And bowing again, he kept writing on the ground.
Hearing this, accused by their conscience, they went out one by one, starting from the oldest to the last; and only Jesus and the woman, who was in the middle, remained.
And Jesus, straightening up and seeing no one but the woman, said to her: Woman, where are those who accused you? Has none condemned you?
And she said: None, Lord. Then Jesus said to him, "Neither do I condemn you; Go away and sin no more.
And Jesus spoke to them again, saying: I am the light of the world; He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to him: You testify of yourself; your testimony is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them: Although I give testimony of myself, my testimony is true, because I know where I have come from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
You judge according to the flesh, but I do not judge anyone.
And if I judge, my judgment is true, because it is not me alone, but me and the Father who sent me.
And in your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
I am the one who testifies of myself, and the Father who sent me testifies of me.
And they said to him, Where is your Father? Jesus answered: You know neither me nor my Father; if you knew me, you would also know my Father.
These words Jesus spoke in the place of offerings, teaching in the temple; and no one caught him, because his hour had not yet come.
And Jesus said to them again: I am going away, and you will seek me, but in your sin you will die; Where I am going, you cannot go.
Then the Jews said: Is he going to kill himself, who says: Where I am going, you cannot go?
And he said to them: You are from below; I am from above; you are of this world; I am not of this world.
That is why I told you that you will die in your sins, because if you do not believe that I am, in your sins you will die.
And they said to him: Who are you? Then Jesus said to them: What I have told you from the beginning.
I have many things to say and judge about you, but the one who sent me is true; And I, what I have heard from him, speak to the world.
But they did not understand that he was talking to them about the Father.
So Jesus said to them: When you have raised up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am, and that I do nothing for myself, but as the Father taught me, so I speak.
For he who sent me is with me; The Father has not left me alone, because I always do what he likes.
As he said these things, many believed in him.
Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you remain in my word, you will truly be my disciples;
and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
And they said to him, We are the lineage of Abraham, and have never been slaves to anyone. How do you say: Will you be free?
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, that everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin.
And the slave does not stay in the house forever, but the son does stay forever.
So if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free.
I know that you are descendants of Abraham; However, you try to kill me, because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen being with the Father; and you do what you have seen with your father.
They answered and said to him: Our father is Abraham. Jesus said to them: If you were children of Abraham, the works of Abraham would you do.
But now you are trying to kill me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I have heard from God; that Abraham did not do.
Ye do the deeds of your father. Then they said to him: We were not born of fornication; we have a father, who is God.
Jesus then said to them: If your father were God, you would certainly love me, because I have come from God and come; for I did not come by myself, but he sent me.
Why don't you understand my language? Because you can't hear my word.
You are from your father the devil, and you want to do your father's wishes. He has been a murderer from the beginning and has not remained in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks lies, he speaks of himself, because he is a liar and the father of lies.
And me, because I tell the truth, you don't believe me.
Which one of you accuses me of sin? Well, if I tell the truth, why don't you believe me?
He who is of God hears the words of God; This is why you do not hear them, because you are not of God.
Then the Jews answered and said to him: Do we not say well that you are a Samaritan and that you have a devil?
Jesus answered: I have no demon, but rather I honor my Father; and you dishonor me.
But I do not seek my glory; there are those who seek and judge it.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who keeps my word will never see death.
Then the Jews said to him: Now we know that you have a devil. Abraham died, and also the prophets, and you say: He who keeps my word will never taste death.
Are you perhaps greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets also died; Who do you make yourself
Jesus answered: If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing; my Father is the one who glorifies me, the one you say is your God.
And you don't know him, but I do know him; And if I say that I don't know him, he would be a liar like you; but I know him and keep his word.
Abraham, your father, rejoiced that he would see my day; and he saw it and rejoiced.
Then the Jews said to him: You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham was, I am.
So they took stones to throw at them, but Jesus hid himself and left the temple; and going through them, he left.