When Jesus had said these things, he went out with his disciples to the other side of the Cedrón stream, where there was an orchard in which Jesus entered with his disciples.
And Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, also knew that place, because many times Jesus had met there with his disciples.
Judas, therefore, taking a company of soldiers and guards of the chief priests and of the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches, and with weapons.
But Jesus, knowing everything that was going to happen to him, went ahead and said to them: Who are you looking for?
They answered: Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them: I am. And Judas, the betrayer, was also with them.
And when he said to them: I am, they fell back and fell to the ground.
So he asked them again: Who are you looking for? And they said: Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered: I have told you that I am. Well if you are looking for me, let these go,
so that the word he had said would be fulfilled: Of those you gave me, I did not lose any.
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it out, and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. And the servant was called Malco.
Jesus then said to Peter: Keep the sword in the scabbard; the cup that the Father has given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the company of soldiers, and the tribune and the guards of the Jews seized Jesus and bound him.
And they brought him first before Annas, because he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
And Caiaphas was the one who had given the advice to the Jews that a man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus. And this disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest;
but Peter was outside, at the door. And that disciple who was known to the high priest came out, and spoke to the concierge and brought Peter in.
Then the concierge maid said to Peter: Are you not also one of this man's disciples? He said: I am not.
And the servants and the guards who had lit a fire were standing, because it was cold and warming; and also with them was Peter standing, warming himself up.
And the high priest asked Jesus about his disciples and their doctrine.
Jesus replied: I have spoken openly to the world; I have always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather, and I have not spoken in secret.
Why are you asking me? Ask those who have heard what I have told them; behold, they know what I have said.
And when he had said this, one of the guards who was there slapped Jesus, saying: Is this how you respond to the high priest?
Jesus answered him: If I have spoken badly, testify of what is bad; but while why do you hit me?
Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
So Peter was standing, warming himself up. And they said to him, Are you not one of his disciples? He denied and said: I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the one to whom Peter had cut off his ear, said to him: Did I not see you in the garden with him?
And Peter denied again, and immediately the rooster crowed.
And they carried Jesus from Caiaphas to the judgment hall. And it was very morning, and they did not enter the praetorium so as not to get contaminated, so they could eat Easter.
Then Pilate came out to them and said, What accusation are you bringing against this man?
They answered and said to him: If this were not a criminal, we would not have handed him over to you.
Then Pilate said to them, Take him and judge him according to your law. And the Jews said to him: It is not lawful for us to kill anyone;
so that the word that Jesus had spoken would be fulfilled, implying what death he would die of.
Then Pilate entered the judgment hall again, and called Jesus and said to him: Are you the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him: Do you say this for yourself, or have others told you about me?
Pilate answered: Am I a Jew? Your nation and the chief priests have handed you over to me. What have you done
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight so that I would not be delivered to the Jews; But my kingdom is not from here.
Then Pilate said to him, "Are you king then?" Jesus answered: You say that I am a king. For this I was born and for this I have come into the world: to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.
Pilate said to him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said: I find no crime in him.
But you have a habit of releasing one at Easter. Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Then they all cried out again, saying: Not this one, but Barabbas! And Barabbas was a thief.