Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house there are many dwellings; otherwise, I would have told you; So I am going to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, so that where I am, you will also be.
And you know where I am going, and you know the way.
Thomas said to him: Lord, we do not know where you are going; How then can we know the way?
Jesus said to him: I am the way, and the truth and the life; no one comes to the Father except through me.
If you knew me, you would also know my Father; and from now on you know him and have seen him.
Philip said to him: Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him: I have been with you for so long, and you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; How, then, do you say: Show us the Father?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I do not speak for myself, but the Father who lives in me, he does the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; otherwise, believe me for the same works.
Truly, truly, I say to you: He who believes in me, the works that I do he will also do; and even greater than these will he do, because I go to the Father.
And whatever you ask the Father in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask anything in my name, I will.
If you love me, keep my commandments.
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, to be with you forever:
The Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees nor knows him; but you know him, because he dwells with you and will be in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I will come to you.
Still a little bit, and the world won't see me anymore; but you will see me; Because I live, you will also live.
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
He who has my commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves me; and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
Judas, not Iscariot, said to him: Lord, how is it that you are going to manifest yourself to us and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, He who loves me will keep my word; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
He who does not love me does not keep my words; And the word that you have heard is not mine, but the Father's who sent me.
These things I have spoken to you while being with you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things, and will remind you of all that I have said to you.
Peace I leave you, my peace I give you; I do not give it to you as the world gives it. Not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
You have heard that I have said to you: I am going, and I am coming back to you. If you loved me, you would certainly rejoice, because I have said that I am going to the Father, because the Father is greater than me.
And now I have told you before it happens, so that, when it happens, you believe.
I won't talk to you much anymore, because the prince of this world comes, and he has nothing in me.
But so that I know the world that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me the commandment, so I do. Get up, let's get out of here!