Having said these things, Jesus went out with his disciples to the other side of the stream of Quedrón where there was an orchard in which Jesus entered with his disciples.
Judas, the bearer, also knew that place because Jesus used to meet his disciples there.
Then Judas, taking a company of Roman soldiers and guards of the chief priests and of the Pharisees, went there with torches, lamps, and weapons.
But Jesus, knowing all the things that were to happen to him, went ahead and said to them: "Who are you looking for?"
They replied, "Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, "I am." Judas, the bearer, was also with them.
When he said, "I am", they went back and fell to the ground.
So he asked them again: "Who are you looking for?" They said, "Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered: —I told them that I Am. Well if you look for me, let these go.
This he did to fulfill the word that he said: "Of those that you gave me, none of them lost" [a].
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it, struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. And the servant was called Malco.
Then Jesus said to Peter, "Put your sword in the scabbard. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?
Then the company of soldiers, the commander and the guards of the Jews seized Jesus and tied him up.
Then they brought him first to Annas because he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest of that year.
Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that a man should die for the people.
Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus. This disciple was known to the high priest and entered the high priest's courtyard with Jesus.
but Pedro remained outside, at the door. And the other disciple who was known to the high priest came out, spoke to the caretaker, and led Peter inside.
Then the maid-keeper said to Peter, "Will you not also be one of that man's disciples?" He said, "I am not."
And the servants and the guards were standing because they had lit embers, because it was cold and they were warming up. Pedro was also standing with them, warming up.
The high priest asked Jesus about his disciples and their doctrine.
Jesus replied, "I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather. I have not spoken in secret.
Why are you asking me? Ask those who have heard what I have told them. Behold, they know what I said.
When he said this, one of the guards who were there slapped Jesus across the face, saying, "Is that how you respond to the high priest?"
Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken badly, bear witness to the evil; but while why do you hit me?
Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Peter denies Jesus again
So Peter was standing, warming himself up, and they said to him, "Will you not also be one of his disciples?" He denied and said, "I am not."
One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the one to whom Peter had cut off his ear, said to him: "Did I not see you in the garden with him?"
Pedro denied again, and immediately the rooster crowed. Jesus before Pilate
They brought Jesus of Caiaphas to the Praetorium. It was at dawn. But they did not enter the Praetorium so as not to get contaminated and thus be able to eat Easter.
So Pilate came out to them and said, "What charge are you bringing against this man?"
They answered him and said: —If this man were not a criminal, we would not have given him to you.
Then Pilate said to them, "Take it yourself and judge it according to your law." The Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to kill anyone."
This was so that the word of Jesus could be fulfilled, which he said pointing out with what kind of death he would die [c].
Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, called Jesus and said, "Are you the King of the Jews?"
Jesus answered him, "Do you ask this for yourself or because others have told you about me?"
Pilate replied, "Am I a Jew?" Your own nation and the chief priests handed you over to me. What have you done
Jesus answered: —My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight so that I would not be delivered to the Jews. Now, then, my kingdom is not from here.
Then Pilate said to him, "So you are king?" Jesus replied, "You say that I am a king." For this I was born and for this I came into the world: to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.
Pilate said to him, "What is the truth?" Having said this, he went out to the Jews again and said, "I find no crime in him."
But you have a habit of releasing a prisoner at Easter. So you want me to release the king of the Jews?
Then they all shouted again saying, "Not this one, but Barabbas!" And Barabbas was an assailant.