In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
This was in the beginning with God.
All things through him were made, and without him nothing that was made was made.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not understand it.
There was a man sent by God, whose name was John.
He came as a witness, to bear witness to the light, so that all would believe through him.
He was not the light, but came to bear witness to the light.
That was the true light that illuminates every man who comes into this world.
He was in the world, and the world was made through him; but the world did not know him.
He came to his own, and his own received him not.
But to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave power to become children of God;
that they were not born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us (and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth.
John testified of him and cried out, saying: This is the one about whom I said: He who comes after me is before me, because he was before me.
Because of its fullness we all receive, and grace upon grace.
Because the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
No one has ever seen God; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known.
And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: Who are you?
And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed: I am not the Christ.
And they asked him: What then? Are you Elijah? He said: I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered: No.
Then they said to him: Who are you ?, so that we give answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?
He said: I am the voice of one crying out in the desert: Straighten the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said.
And those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
Then they asked him and said to him: Why, then, do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, neither Elijah nor the prophet?
And John answered them, saying: I baptize with water, but in the midst of you there is one whom you do not know.
This is he who is to come after me, he who is before me, of whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his sandal.
These things happened in Betábara, across the Jordan, where Juan baptized.
The next day John saw Jesus coming to him, and said: Behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
This is the one about whom I said: After me comes a man who is before me, because he was before me.
And I did not know him, but in order for him to be manifested to Israel, that is why I came baptizing in water.
And John testified, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it rested upon him.
And I didn't know him; But the one who sent me to baptize in water said to me: He on whom you see the Spirit descend and who rests on him, that is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.
And I have seen and testified to him that this is the Son of God.
The next day John was again, and with him two of his disciples.
And looking at Jesus who was walking there, he said: Behold the Lamb of God!
And the two disciples heard him speak and followed Jesus.
And Jesus turning and seeing them follow him, said to them: What are you looking for? And they said to him: Rabbi (which interpreted means Master), where do you live?
He said to them: Come and see. So they went and saw where he lived, and they stayed with him that day, because it was about the tenth hour.
Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, was one of the two who had heard John and who had followed Jesus.
He first found his brother Simon and said to him: We have found the Messiah (who is interpreted to be the Christ).
And he brought Jesus to him. And when Jesus looked at him, he said: You are Simon the son of Jonah; you will be called Cephas (which means stone).
The next day, Jesus wanted to go to Galilee, and he found Philip and said: Follow me.
And Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses wrote in the law, and also the prophets: Jesus the son of Joseph of Nazareth.
And Nathanael said to him: Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Felipe said to him: Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael approaching him and said of him: Behold a true Israelite, in whom there is no deception.
Nathanael said to him: Where do you know me from? Jesus answered and said to him: Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
Nathanael answered and said to him: Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!
Jesus answered and said to him: Do you believe because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree? You see greater things than these.
And he said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, from now on you will see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.