Then there was a sick man named Lazarus, from Bethany, the village of Mary and Martha, his sister.
(And Mary, whose brother Lazarus was ill, was the one who anointed the Lord with perfume and wiped his feet with her hair).
So they sent their sisters to say to Jesus: Lord, behold, the one you love is sick.
And when Jesus heard it, he said: This disease is not for death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it.
And Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
So when he heard that he was ill, he stayed two more days in the place where he was.
Then after this he said to the disciples: Let's go to Judea again.
The disciples said to him: Rabbi, recently the Jews were trying to stone you, and again you go there?
Jesus answered: Does not the day have twelve hours? He who walks by day does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
But he who walks at night stumbles, because there is no light in him.
Saying this, he said later: Our friend Lazarus sleeps, but I am going to wake him up.
Then his disciples said: Lord, if he sleeps, he will recover.
But Jesus was talking about the death of Lazarus, and they thought he was talking about the resting of the dream.
Then Jesus said clearly to them: Lazarus is dead;
and I am glad for you of not having been there, so that you believe; but we go to him.
Then Thomas, called Didymus, said to his fellow students: Let us also go, that we may die with him.
So Jesus came and found that Lazarus had been in the tomb for four days.
And Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia;
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to comfort them for their brother.
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went out to meet him; but Maria stayed home.
And Martha said to Jesus: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died;
But I also know now that whatever you ask of God, God will give it to you.
Jesus said to him: Your brother will rise again.
Martha said to him: I know that he will rise in the resurrection, in the last day.
Jesus said to him: I am the resurrection and the life; He who believes in me, even though he is dead, will live.
And everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this
He said: Yes, Lord; I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, that you have come into the world.
And when he had said this, he went and called his sister Maria, secretly telling her: The Master is here and is calling you.
When she heard it, she got up quickly and went to him.
(Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was at the place where Martha had found him.)
Then the Jews who were at home with her and comforted her, when they saw that Mary had risen quickly and had left, followed her, saying: She is going to the tomb to cry there.
And when Mary came to where Jesus was, when she saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
Jesus then, when he saw her crying, and the Jews who had come with her also crying, was moved in spirit, and was troubled,
And he said: Where did you put him? They said to him: Lord, come and see.
And Jesus wept.
Then the Jews said: See how he loved him.
But some of them said: Couldn't this man, who opened his eyes to the blind man, have made Lazarus not die?
And Jesus, moved again within himself, went to the grave. It was a cave, which had a stone on it.
Jesus said: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the one who had died, said to him: Lord, it stinks already, because it has been four days.
Jesus said to him: Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?
Then they removed the stone from where the dead man had been placed. And Jesus, raising his eyes up high, said: Father, I thank you because you heard me.
I knew you always hear me; But I said it because of the people who are around, so that they believe that you have sent me.
And having said this, he cried with a loud voice: Lazarus, come outside!
And the one who had been dead came out, tied his hands and feet with bandages, and his face wrapped in a shroud. Jesus said to them: Untie him and let him go.
So many of the Jews who had come to see Mary and had seen what Jesus had done believed in him.
But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees came together in council and said: What shall we do? Because this man does many miracles.
If we leave him like this, everyone will believe in him; and the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation.
Then Caiaphas, one of them, high priest that year, said to them: You do not know anything,
nor do you think it is in our interest that a man die for the people, and not that the whole nation perish.
But he did not say this of himself, but, being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation;
and not only for that nation, but also to reunite in one the scattered children of God.
So from that day on they agreed to kill him.
Therefore, Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the land by the desert, to a city called Ephraim, and stayed there with his disciples.
And the Jews' Passover was at hand, and many went up from that region to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves.
And they looked for Jesus and, being in the temple, they talked to each other: What do you think? Do not come to the party?
And the chief priests and the Pharisees had ordered that if anyone knew where Jesus was, he should manifest him to take him prisoner.