So Pilate then took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and clothed him in a purple robe;
And approaching Him, they said to him: Hail, King of the Jews! And they slapped him.
Pilate came out again, and said to them *: Look, I will bring him outside to you, so that you know that I find no crime in Him.
Jesus then went outside wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate * said to them: Behold the Man!
Then, when the chief priests and the bailiffs saw him, they cried out, saying: Crucify him! Crucify Him! Pilate * said to them, "Take him and crucify him, for I find no crime in him.
The Jews answered him: We have a law, and according to that law He must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God.
Then Pilate, when he heard these words, was even more frightened.
He entered the Praetorium again and said * to Jesus: Where are you from? But Jesus did not give an answer.
Pilate then said to him, "Do you not speak to me? Don't you know that I have authority to release you, and that I have authority to crucify you?
Jesus replied: You would have no authority over me if it had not been given to you from above; So he who gave me to you has greater sin.
As a result of this, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying: If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar; everyone who becomes king opposes Caesar.
Then Pilate, when he heard these words, took Jesus out and sat in the court, in a place called the Cobblestone, and in Hebrew Gabata.
And it was the day of preparation for Easter; It was about the sixth hour. And Pilate * said to the Jews: Behold your King.
Then they shouted: Get out! Outside! Crucify Him! Pilate * said to them: Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests replied: We have no king but Caesar.
So then he handed him over to be crucified.
So they took Jesus, and He went out carrying his cross to the place called the Place of the Skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha,
where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side and Jesus in the middle.
Pilate also wrote a sign and put it on the cross. And it was written: JESUS ​​THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then many Jews read this inscription, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek.
So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Do not write, "the King of the Jews"; but He said, "I am the King of the Jews."
Pilate replied: What I have written I have written.
So the soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, took their clothes and made four parts, one part for each soldier. And they also took the robe; and the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece.
Therefore they said to one another: Let us not break it; if not we cast lots on it, to green who will be; so that the Scripture could be fulfilled: THEY DISTRIBUTED BETWEEN MY DRESSES, AND THROUGH MY CLOTHES THERE WERE LUCKY.
So the soldiers did this. And next to the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.
And when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said * to his mother: Woman, behold, your son!
Then he * said to the disciple: Behold your mother! And from that hour the disciple received her in his own house.
After this, Jesus knowing that everything had already been consummated, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, said *: I am thirsty.
There was a jar full of vinegar there; So they placed a sponge soaked in the vinegar on a hyssop branch and brought it to his mouth.
Then Jesus, when he had taken the vinegar, said: It is finished! And bowing his head he gave up his spirit.
The Jews then, as it was the day of preparation for Passover, so that the bodies did not stay on the cross on the Sabbath (because that Sabbath was very solemn), asked Pilate to break their legs and they will take them away.
So the soldiers went and broke the legs of the first, and also those of the other who had been crucified with Jesus;
but when they came to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs;
but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
And he who has seen it has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you too may believe.
Because this happened so that the Scripture was fulfilled: YOUR BONE WILL NOT BE BROKEN.
And also another Scripture says: THEY WILL LOOK AT THE ONE THAT THEY PASSED.
After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, although secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate for permission to take the body of Jesus. And Pilate granted permission. So he came and took the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus, the one who had come to Jesus before at night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloe about a hundred pounds.
Then they took the body of Jesus, and wrapped it in linen cloth with the aromatic spices, as it is customary to bury among the Jews.
In the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new grave, in which no one had yet been buried.
Therefore, because of the day of the preparation of the Jews, since the tomb was near, they put Jesus there.