Six days before Easter Jesus arrived at Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead.
They made him a dinner there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him.
Then Mary, having brought about half a liter of perfume of pure tuberose of great value, anointed the feet of Jesus and cleaned them with her hair. And the house was filled with the smell of perfume.
But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot [a], who was about to deliver him, said:
—Why was this perfume not sold for almost a year of salary and given to the poor?
But he said this, not because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief and, having the bag in his charge, he stole from what was put into it.
Then Jesus said, "Leave her alone." For the day of my burial he has kept this.
Because you always have the poor with you, but you don't always have me.
Then many people from the Jews found out that he was there and they went, not only because of Jesus but also to see Lazarus whom he had raised from the dead.
But the main priests resolved to kill Lazarus too
Because, because of him, many of the Jews turned away and believed in Jesus.
The next day, when he heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, the large crowd that had come to the party
He took palm branches and went out to meet him, crying out loudly, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel!" [b].
Jesus having found a donkey, he rode on it as it is written:
Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your King is coming, sitting on a young donkey! [C].
His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that these things were done to him.
The people who were with him testified when he called Lazarus from the grave and raised him from the dead.
For this reason also the crowd went out to meet him, because they heard that he had made this sign.
Then the Pharisees said to each other, "See that they gain nothing." Behold the world is going after him!
There were certain Greeks among those who had come up to worship at the feast.
They approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and pleaded with him saying, "Lord, we would like to see Jesus."
Felipe went and told Andrés. Andrés and Felipe told Jesus.
And Jesus answered them saying: —The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it is left alone, but if it dies it bears much fruit.
He who loves his life loses it; but he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
If anyone serves me, follow me; And where I am there will also be my server. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
"Now my soul is troubled. What shall I say:" Father, save me from this hour "? On the contrary, for this I have come to this hour!
Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven: "I have already glorified him and will glorify him again!"
The crowd that was present and heard said that it had been thunder. Others said: —An angel has spoken to him!
Jesus answered and said, "This voice has not come because of me but because of you.
Now is the judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out.
And I, when I am raised from the earth, will draw all to myself.
This he said implying what death was to die.
Then the people answered him: —We have heard that, according to the law, the Christ remains forever. And how is it that you say: "It is necessary that the Son of Man be raised up"? Who is this Son of Man?
Then Jesus said to them, "Even for a little while the light is among you. Walk while you have the light so that the darkness does not surprise you. Because he who walks in darkness does not know where he is going.
While you have the light you create in the light so that you are children of light. These things Jesus spoke and, turning away, hid himself from them.
But, despite having made so many signs in front of them, they did not believe in him
so that the word of the prophet Isaiah, who said: Lord, who believed our message? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? [D].
So they could not believe, because Isaiah said on another occasion:
He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, so that they do not see with the eyes nor understand with the heart, nor are they converted, and I heal them [e].
These things Isaiah said because he saw his glory and spoke about him.
However, even among the leaders many believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him so as not to be expelled from the synagogue.
Because they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
But Jesus raised his voice and said: "He who believes in me does not believe in me but in the one who sent me;
and he who sees me sees him who sent me.
I have come into the world as light so that everyone who believes in me does not remain in darkness.
If someone hears my words and doesn't keep them, I don't judge them; because I did not come to judge the world but to save the world.
He who rejects me and does not receive my words has someone to judge him: The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.
Because I did not speak for myself; but the Father who sent me, he has given me a commandment of what to say and what to speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life. So what I speak, I speak just as the Father has spoken to me. "