Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that He made and baptized more disciples than John
(although Jesus himself did not baptize, but his disciples),
He left Judea and set out again for Galilee.
And he had to go through Samaria.
So he * came to a city in Samaria called Sychar, near the parcel of land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph;
and there was Jacob's well. Then Jesus, tired from the road, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman from Samaria * came to draw water, and Jesus * said to her: Give me a drink.
Well, his disciples had gone to the city to buy food.
Then the Samaritan woman * said to him: How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me to drink, that I am a Samaritan? (Because the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.)
Jesus answered and said to him: If you knew the gift of God, and who is it that says to you: "Give me to drink", you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.
She said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep; Where, then, do you have that living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well from which he drank himself, and his children, and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to him, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again,
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty, but the water that I will give him will become in him a source of water that springs for eternal life.
The woman said to him, "Sir, give me that water, so that I won't be thirsty or come all the way here to draw it."
He said to her *: Go, call your husband and come here.
The woman answered and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her *: You have said well: "I have no husband",
for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; in that you have told the truth.
The woman said to him, "Lord, it seems to me that you are a prophet."
Our parents worshiped on this mountain, and you say that Jerusalem is the place where you should worship.
Jesus said to her *: Woman, believe me; The hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
You adore what you do not know; we adore what we know, because salvation comes from the Jews.
But the hour is coming, and now is, when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth; for certainly the Father seeks to adore them.
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.
The woman said to him *: I know that the Messiah is coming (the one who is called Christ); when he comes he will declare everything to us.
Jesus said to him *: I am he who speaks to you.
At this his disciples came and were amazed that he spoke to a woman, but none asked him: What are you trying to find out? or: Why are you talking to her?
Then the woman left her jug, went to the city and said * to the men:
Come, see a man who has told me everything I have done. Is not this the Christ?
And they left the city and went to Him.
Meanwhile, the disciples pleaded with him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
But He said to them: I have food to eat that you do not know.
The disciples then said to each other: Has anyone brought him something to eat?
Jesus said to them *: My food is to do the will of the one who sent me and to carry out his work.
Don't you say: "There are still four months to go, and then the harvest comes"? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and see the fields that are already white for harvest.
The reaper already receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that the one who sows rejoices together with the one who reaps.
Because in this case the saying is true: "One is the one who sows and the other is the one who reaps."
I sent you to reap what you have not worked; others have worked and you have entered into their work.
And from that city, many of the Samaritans believed in Him through the word of the woman who bore witness, saying: He told me everything I have done.
So when the Samaritans came to Him, they begged Him to stay with them; And he stayed there two days.
And many more believed by his word,
and they said to the woman: We no longer believe because of what you have said, because we have heard ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.
After two days, he left there for Galilee.
Because Jesus Himself bore witness that a prophet is not honored in his own land.
So when he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, because they had seen everything he did in Jerusalem during the festival; because they had also gone to the party.
Then he came again to Cana of Galilee, where he had turned water into wine. And there was a certain officer of the king whose son was sick at Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to meet him and begged him to come down and heal his son, because he was on the verge of death.
Jesus then said to him: If you do not see signs and wonders, you will not believe.
The king's officer said to him *: Sir, come down before my son dies.
Jesus said to him *: Go, your son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus said to him and left.
And while he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was alive.
Then he asked them what time it had started to improve. And they answered him: Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever was gone.
The father then realized that it was at the time that Jesus said to him: Your son lives. And he and his whole house believed.
This was the second sign that Jesus made when he went from Judea to Galilee.