Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but ascends elsewhere, is a thief and a robber.
But the one who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To this the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; And he calls his sheep by name and leads them out.
And when he has taken out all his own, he goes before them; and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.
But they will not follow the stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
This parable was told by Jesus, but they did not understand what He was saying.
So Jesus said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door; Whoever enters through me will be saved; and he will go in, and go out, and find pasture.
The thief comes only to steal, and to kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd; The good shepherd gives his life to the sheep.
But the employee, and who is not the shepherd, whose sheep are not his own, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf snatches and scatters the sheep.
So the wage earner runs away, because he is a wage earner, and he doesn't care about the sheep.
I am the good shepherd and I know my sheep, and mine know me,
just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father; and lay down my life for the sheep.
I also have other sheep that are not of this fold; I must also bring those, and they will hear my voice, and there will be a flock and a shepherd.
That is why the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, to take it again.
No one takes it from me, but I put it on myself. I have power to put it, and I have power to take it again. This commandment I received from my Father.
And there was again dissension among the Jews over these words.
And many of them said: He has a demon, and he is beside himself; Why do you hear him
Others said: These words are not of a demoniac. Can the devil open the eyes of the blind?
And the feast of dedication was celebrated in Jerusalem. And it was winter,
and Jesus walked in the temple through the portico of Solomon.
And the Jews surrounded him and said to him: How long are you to trouble our souls? If you are the Christ, tell us openly.
Jesus answered them: I have told you, and you do not believe; the works that I do in the name of my Father, they bear witness to me.
But you do not believe, because you are not of my sheep, as I have told you.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me;
and I give them eternal life and they will never perish, nor will anyone snatch them out of my hand.
My Father who gave them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from my Father's hand.
I and the Father are one.
Then the Jews again took stones to stone him.
Jesus answered them: Many good works I have shown you of my Father, for which of them do you stone me?
The Jews answered him, saying: For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy; and because you, being a man, believe you are God.
Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law: I said: You are gods?
If you called gods to whom the word of God came (and Scripture cannot be broken),
Whom did the Father sanctify and send into the world, you say: You blaspheme, because I said: I am the Son of God?
If I don't do the works of my Father, don't believe me.
But if I do them, even if you do not believe me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.
And they tried to catch him again, but he escaped from their hands.
And he went again across the Jordan, to the place where John had first been baptizing; and stayed there.
And many came to him and said: John, in truth, did not perform any miracles; but everything John said about this was true.
And many believed in him there.