"Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me.
In my Father's house there are many dwellings. Otherwise, he would have told them. So I am going to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you with me so that where I am you will also be.
And they know where I'm going, and they know the way.
Thomas said to him, "Sir, we don't know where you are going; How can we know the way?
Jesus said to him: —I am the way, the truth and the life; no one comes to the Father except through me.
If you have known me, you will also know my Father; and from now they know it and have seen it.
Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and that is enough for us."
Jesus said to him, "I have been with you so long, Philip, and have you not known me?" He who has seen me has seen the Father. How, then, do you say: "Show us the Father"?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I do not speak of myself but the Father who lives in me does his works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; otherwise, they create [b] by the same works.
"Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do. And greater works than these will he do, because I go to the Father.
And whatever you ask in my name, I will do so that the Father will be glorified in the Son.
If you ask me for something in my name, I will do it.
"If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
And I will ask the Father and he will give you another Comforter to be with you forever.
This is the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees nor knows it. You know it, because it remains with you and is in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I will come back to you.
Still a little bit and the world won't see me anymore; but you will see me. Because I live, you too will live.
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
He who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
Judas, not the Iscariot, said to him: "Lord, how is it that you should manifest yourself to us and not to the world?"
Jesus answered and said to him, "If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our dwelling with him.
He who does not love me does not keep my words. And the word they hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.
"These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit that the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and will make you remember everything that I have told you.
"Peace I leave you, my peace I give you. Not as the world gives it I give it to you. Do not be troubled or afraid.
You heard me say, "I'm coming and going back to you." If they loved me they would enjoy that I go to the Father, because the Father is older than me.
"Now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you will believe.
I won't talk to you much anymore because the prince of this world comes and he has nothing in me.
But so that the world knows that I love the Father and as the Father commanded me, so I do.
