On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Maria Magdalena went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the tomb.
So he ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and he said to them: —They have taken the Lord out of the grave and we don't know where they have put him.
So Peter and the other disciple went out and went to the grave.
And the two ran together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first.
And when he bent down, he saw that the canvases had been left there; however, it did not enter.
Then Simon Peter came following him and entered the tomb. And saw the canvases that were left,
and the shroud that had been on his head not put on the canvases but folded in a separate place.
Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also entered, and he saw and believed.
For they did not yet understand the Scripture, that it was necessary for him to rise from the dead.
Then the disciples returned to their own.
But Maria Magdalena was crying outside the grave. While crying, he leaned into the grave
and he saw two angels in white robes sitting, one at the head and the other at the foot where the body of Jesus had been placed.
And they said to her, "Woman, why are you crying?" He said to them: —Because they have taken my Lord and I don't know where they have put him.
Having said this, he turned back and saw Jesus standing; but he did not realize it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you crying?" Who are you looking for? Thinking that he was the gardener, she said: "Sir, if you have taken him, tell me where you have put him and I will take him."
Jesus said to her, "Mary ..." Turning around, she said to him in Hebrew: "Raboni!" (which means Master).
Jesus said to him, "Let me go because I have not yet ascended to the Father." But go to my brothers and tell them: "I go up to my Father and your Father, my God and your God."
Mary Magdalene went to give the news to the disciples: —I have seen the Lord! He also told them that he had told her these things.
At nightfall on that day, the first of the week, and when the doors were closed at the place where the disciples gathered for fear of the Jews, Jesus entered, stood in their midst and said to them: "Peace to you! "
Having said this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord.
Then Jesus said to them again: "Peace to you! As the Father has sent me, so I also send you."
Having said this, he blew and said to them, "Receive the Holy Ghost.
To those who remit sins, they have been remitted; and those who are being withheld have been withheld. "
But Thomas, called Didymus, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him: —We have seen the Lord! But he said to them, "If I don't see the nail mark on your hands, and if I don't put my finger on the nail mark and if I don't put my hand on your side, I will never believe."
Eight days later, his disciples were inside again and Thomas was with them. And although the doors were closed, Jesus entered, stood in the middle and said: "Peace to you!
Then he said to Tomás: —Put your finger here and look at my hands, put your hand here and put it on my side, and don't be an unbeliever but a believer.
Then Thomas answered and said to him: "My Lord and my God!"
Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me, have you believed? [A]. Blessed are those who do not see and believe!
Incidentally, Jesus made many other signs in the presence of his disciples which are not written in this book.
But these things have been written so that you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you have life in his name.