"I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
He removes every branch that is not bearing fruit in me; and he cleans every branch that is bearing fruit so that it may bear more fruit.
You are already clean by the word that I have spoken to you.
"Remain in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself if it does not remain in the vine, so neither can you if you do not remain in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit. But apart from me they can do nothing.
If someone does not remain in me, he is cast out like a branch and dries up. And they gather them up and throw them into the fire, and they are burned.
"If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask for what you want and it will be done for you.
In this my Father is glorified: that they bear much fruit and be my disciples.
As the Father loved me, I have also loved you; remain in my love.
If you keep my commandments you will remain in my love; as I too have kept my Father's commandments and remain in his love.
"These things I have spoken to you so that my joy is in you and your joy is complete.
This is my commandment: love one another as I have loved you.
Greater love has no one than this: that one lay down his life for his friends.
You are my friends if you do what I command you.
I no longer call you servants because the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends because I have made known to you all the things that I heard from my Father.
"You did not choose me; rather, I chose you and I have appointed you to go and bear fruit, and so that your fruit remains so that whatever you ask the Father in my name he will give it to you .
This I command you to love one another.
"If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before you.
If they were of the world, the world would love theirs. But they are no longer of the world, but I chose them from the world; that's why the world hates them.
Remember the word that I have said to you: 'The servant is not greater than his lord' [a]. If you have persecuted me, you will also be persecuted. If you have kept my word, you will also keep yours.
But all this they will do to you because of my name, because they do not know the one who sent me.
If I had not come or spoken to you, you would have no sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
He who hates me also hates my Father.
If I had not done works among them like no other has done, they would have no sin. And now they have seen them, and they have also hated both me and my Father.
But this happened to fulfill the word that is written in their law: without cause they hated me [b].
"But when the Comforter comes, the Spirit of truth that I will send to you from the Father, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me.
Furthermore, you will also testify because you have been with me from the beginning.