And on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went * early to the grave, when it was * still dark, and saw * that the stone had already been removed from the grave.
So he ran * and * went to Simon Peter and the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them *: They have taken the Lord from the grave, and we do not know where they have put him.
So Peter and the other disciple went out and went to the tomb.
The two ran together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter, and reached the tomb first;
and bending down to look inside, he saw * the linen wraps placed there, but did not enter.
Then Simon Peter * also came after him, entered the tomb, and saw * the linen wrappings placed there,
and the shroud that had been on Jesus' head, not put on the linen wraps, but rolled up in a separate place.
Then the other disciple, the one who had reached the tomb first, also entered and saw and believed.
Because they had not yet understood the Scripture, that Jesus must rise from the dead.
The disciples then went back to their homes.
But Maria was outside, crying by the grave; and while crying, he bent down and looked into the grave;
and he saw * two angels dressed in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been, one at the head and the other at the feet.
And they said to him *: Woman, why are you crying? She said to them *: Because they have taken my Lord, and I don't know where they have put him.
Saying this, he turned and saw Jesus standing there, but did not know that it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her *: Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for? ”She, thinking it was the gardener, said to him:“ Sir, if you have taken him, tell me where you have put him, and I will take him.
Jesus said to her *: Mary! Turning, she said to him * in Hebrew: Raboni! (which means, Master).
Jesus said to him *: Let me go because I have not yet ascended to the Father; But go to my brothers and tell them: "I am going up to my Father and your Father, my God and your God."
* Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples: I have seen the Lord! And that He had said these things to her.
Then, on the evening of that day, the first of the week, and when the doors of the place where the disciples were for fear of the Jews were closed, Jesus came and stood in their midst, and said to them *: Peace be with you .
And saying this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples rejoiced to see the Lord.
Jesus then said to them again: Peace to you; As the Father has sent me, so I also send you.
After saying this, he breathed on them and said *: Receive the Holy Spirit.
To those who forgive sins, they are forgiven; to those who retain sins, these are withheld.
Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him: We have seen the Lord! But he said to them: If I do not see in your hands the sign of the nails, and I put my finger in the place of the nails, and put my hand on your side, I will not believe.
Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas with them. And when the doors were closed, Jesus came * and stood in their midst, and said: Peace be with you.
Then he * said to Thomas: Bring your finger here, and look at my hands; extend your hand here and put it in my side; and don't be an unbeliever, but a believer.
Thomas answered and said to him: My Lord and my God!
Jesus * said to him, "Because you have seen me, have you believed?" Happy are those who did not see and yet believed.
And many other signs did Jesus also in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
but these have been written so that you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and so that by believing you may have life in his name.
