So when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John
(although Jesus did not baptize, but his disciples),
He left Judea and went again to Galilee.
And it was necessary for me to go through Samaria.
So he came to a city in Samaria called Sychar, next to the inheritance that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And there was Jacob's well. Then Jesus, tired from the road, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman from Samaria came to draw water; And Jesus said to him, Give me a drink.
(Well, his disciples had gone to the city to buy something to eat).
And the Samaritan woman said to him: How do you, being a Jew, ask me to drink, that I am a Samaritan woman? Because the Jews don't deal with the Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said to him: If you knew the gift of God, and who is it that says to you: Give me to drink, you would ask him, and he would give you living water.
The woman said to him: Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where, then, do you have living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us this well, from which he drank, and his sons and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to him: Whoever drinks of this water will be thirsty again;
but the one that drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty, but the water that I will give him will be in him a source of water that sprouts for eternal life.
The woman said to him: Lord, give me that water, so that I will not be thirsty or come here to draw it.
Jesus said to her: Go, call your husband and come here.
The woman answered and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: You have well said: I have no husband,
because you have had five husbands and the one you now have is not your husband; this you have said with truth.
The woman said to him: Lord, it seems to me that you are a prophet.
Our parents worshiped on this mountain, but you say that Jerusalem is the place to worship.
Jesus said to her: Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
You adore what you do not know; we adore what we know, because salvation comes from the Jews.
But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, because the Father also seeks such to worship him.
God is Spirit; and those who worship him must adore him in spirit and in truth.
The woman said to him: I know that the Messiah is to come, who is called the Christ; when he comes he will declare all things to us.
Jesus said to him, I am he who speaks to you.
And in this his disciples came and were surprised that he spoke to a woman; but no one said: What questions? o What are you talking to her?
So the woman left her jug, and went to the city and said to the men:
Come, see a man who has told me everything I have done. Is not this the Christ?
So they left the city and went to him.
Meanwhile, the disciples pleaded with him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
And he said to them: I have a food to eat that you do not know.
Then the disciples said to each other: Has anyone brought you something to eat?
Jesus said to them: My food is to do the will of the one who sent me and to finish his work.
Do you not say: There are still four months before the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest.
And the one who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that the one who sows also rejoices together with the one who reaps.
For in this the saying is true: One is he who sows, and another is he who reaps.
I have sent you to reap what you did not till; others worked, and you have entered into their labors.
And many of the Samaritans in that city believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, saying: He told me everything I have done.
Then the Samaritans came to him and begged him to stay with them, and he stayed there for two days.
And many more believed by his word.
And they said to the woman: We no longer believe only by your word, because we ourselves have heard and know that this is truly the Savior of the world, the Christ.
And two days later, he left there and went to Galilee.
Because Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own land.
And when he came to Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things he had done in Jerusalem on the day of the feast, because they had also gone to the feast.
So Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee, where he had turned water into wine. And there was in Capernaum an officer of the king, whose son was ill.
When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, because he was about to die.
Then Jesus said to him: If you do not see signs and wonders, you will not believe.
The king's officer said to him: Sir, come down before my son dies.
Jesus said to him: Go, your son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus said to him and left.
And when he was descending, the servants came to meet him and gave him news, saying: Your son lives.
Then he asked them what time it had started to get better. And they said to him: Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
The father then understood that this was the hour when Jesus said to him: Your son lives; and he believed with all his house.
This second miracle Jesus did when he went from Judea to Galilee.