And on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb in the morning, while it was still dark; and he saw the stone removed from the grave.
So he ran, and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said to them: They have taken the Lord from the grave, and we do not know where they have put him.
And Peter and the other disciple went out and went to the grave.
And they both ran together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first.
Leaning down to look, he saw the canvases placed there, but did not enter.
Then Simon Peter came following him, and entered the tomb and saw the canvases placed there,
and the shroud that had been on his head, not put on the canvases, but rolled up in a separate place.
Then the other disciple who had come to the tomb first also entered, and he saw and believed.
For they had not yet understood the Scripture, that it was necessary for him to rise from the dead.
And the disciples returned to their own.
But Mary was crying outside the grave; and while crying, he bent down to look into the tomb;
and he saw two angels in white robes sitting, one at the head and the other at the foot, where the body of Jesus had been laid.
And they said to her: Woman, why are you crying? He said to them: Because they have taken my Lord, and I don't know where they have put him.
And when he had said this, he turned and saw Jesus who was there; but I didn't know it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her: Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for? She, thinking it was the gardener, said to him: Lord, if you have taken him, tell me where you have put him, and I will take him.
Jesus said to her: Mary! Turning, she said to him: Raboni !, which means, Master.
Jesus said to him: Do not touch me, because I have not yet ascended to my Father; But go to my brothers and tell them: I go up to my Father and your Father, my God and your God.
Mary Magdalene then went to tell the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had said these things to her.
And in the evening of that day, the first of the week, and when the doors were closed where the disciples were gathered together for fear of the Jews, Jesus came, stood in the middle and said to them: Peace to you!
And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. And the disciples rejoiced to see the Lord.
Then Jesus said to them again: Peace to you! As the Father sent me, so I also send you.
And when he had said this, he blew and said to them: Receive the Holy Spirit.
To those who forgive sins, they will be forgiven; and to those who retain them, they will be retained.
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
So the other disciples said to him: We have seen the Lord! And he said to them: If I do not see the sign of the nails in his hands, and I put my finger in the place of the nails and put my hand on his side, I will not believe.
And eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and with them Thomas. Jesus came, with the doors closed, and stood in the middle and said: Peace be with you!
Then he said to Tomás: Put your finger here and look at my hands; and bring your hand here and put it on my side; and don't be an unbeliever, but a believer.
Then Thomas answered and said to him: My Lord and my God!
Jesus said to him: Because you have seen me, Thomas, you have believed; Blessed are those who did not see and believe.
And Jesus also did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book.
But these have been written so that you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that, believing, you have life in his name.