There was a man from the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, prominent among the Jews.
This came to Jesus at night and said to him: Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, because nobody can do the signs that you do if God is not with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born again cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to him *: How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered: Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born of water and of the Spirit cannot enter the kingdom of God.
What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Don't be surprised that he said: "You need to be born again."
The wind blows where it wants, and you hear its sound, but you don't know where it comes from or where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him: How can this be?
Jesus answered and said to him, You are the teacher of Israel, and do you not understand these things?
Truly, truly, I tell you that we speak what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our witness.
If I have spoken to you of earthly things, and you do not believe, how will you believe if I speak to you of heavenly things?
No one has ascended into heaven except the one who descended from heaven, that is, the Son of Man who is in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be raised,
so that everyone who believes may have eternal life in Him.
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, so that everyone who believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.
Because God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world, but so that the world would be saved by him.
Whoever believes in Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has already been condemned, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the judgment: that light came into the world, and men loved darkness more than light, because their actions were bad.
Because everyone who does evil hates light, and does not come to light so that his actions are not exposed.
But he who practices truth comes to light, so that his actions may be manifested that they have been done in God.
After this Jesus came with his disciples to the land of Judea, and was there with them, and baptized.
John also baptized at Aenon, near Salim, because there was much water there; and many came and were baptized.
Because Juan had not yet been put in jail.
Then a discussion arose between John's disciples and a Jew about purification.
And they came to John and said to him: Rabbi, look, the one who was with you on the other side of the Jordan, of whom you bore witness, is baptizing and everyone goes to Him.
John answered and said: A man cannot receive anything if it is not given to him from heaven.
You yourselves bear me witness that I said: "I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him."
The one with the bride is the groom, but the groom's friend, who is there and hears him, is very happy with the groom's voice. And so this joy of mine is complete.
It is necessary that He grow, and that I decrease.
He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth comes from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
What He has seen and heard, He testifies to that; and no one receives his testimony.
He who has received his testimony has certified this: that God is truthful.
For the one whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for He gives the Spirit without measure.
The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand.
He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.