These things Jesus spoke, and lifting his eyes to heaven, he said: Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you;
for you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you gave him.
And this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.
I have glorified you on earth; I have finished the work you gave me to do.
Now, Father, glorify me in your presence with that glory that I had with you before the world was.
I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me from the world; They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
Now they have known that all the things you have given me come from you,
because the words that you gave me I have given them; and they received them, and they have truly known that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me.
I pray for them; I do not pray for the world, but for those you gave me, because they are yours;
and all mine is yours, and yours is mine; and I have been glorified in them.
And I'm not in the world anymore; but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, whom you have given me, so that they may be one, as we are.
When I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name; I kept them that you gave me, and none of them was lost, but the son of perdition, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled.
But now I come to you; and I speak this in the world so that you have my complete joy in yourself.
I have given them your word; and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
I do not beg you to remove them from the world, but to save them from evil.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in your truth; your word is the truth.
As you sent me into the world, I have also sent them into the world.
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified through the truth.
But I do not pray only for these, but also for those who will believe in me through their word;
so that they may all be one, like you, Father, in me, and I in you, that they too may be one in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me.
And the glory that you gave me I have given them, so that they are one, just as we are one.
I in them, and you in me, so that they may be perfected in one, so that the world knows that you sent me and that you have loved them, just as you have loved me.
Father, those who have given me, I want them to be with me where I am, so they can see my glory that you have given me, because you have loved me since before the foundation of the world.
Just father, the world has not known you, but I have known you, and these have known that you sent me;
And I have made your name known to them, and I will still make it known, so that the love with which you have loved me is in them, and I in them.