I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
Every branch that does not bear fruit in me will take it away; and everyone who bears fruit will cleanse it, so that it may bear more fruit.
You are already clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.
Stay in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself if it does not remain in the vine, neither can you if you do not remain in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches; He who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing.
He who does not abide in me will be cast out like a bad branch, and will wither; and they gather them up and throw them into the fire, and they burn.
If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask for whatever you want, and it will be done for you.
In this my Father is glorified: that you bear much fruit and thus be my disciples.
As the Father has loved me, so I have also loved you; remain in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love; just as I have kept my Father's commandments and remain in his love.
These things I have spoken to you so that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be complete.
This is my commandment: Love one another, as I have loved you.
Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends.
You are my friends if you do the things that I command you.
I will no longer call you servants, because the servant does not know what his master is doing; But I have called you friends, because all the things I heard from my Father I have made known to you.
You did not choose me, but I chose you, and I have appointed you to go and bear fruit, and your fruit to remain; so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
This I command you: Love each other.
If the world hates you, know that it hated me before you.
If you were of the world, the world would love its own; But because you are not of the world, but I chose you from the world, that is why the world hates you.
Remember the word that I have said to you: The servant is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; If they have kept my word, they will also keep yours.
But all this they will do to you because of my name, because they do not know the one who sent me.
If I had not come or spoken to you, you would have no sin, but now you have no excuse for your sin.
He who hates me also hates my Father.
If I had not done among them works that no one else has done, they would have no sin; but now they have seen them, and they have hated me and my Father.
But this happens so that the word that is written in his law is fulfilled: without cause they hated me.
But when the Comforter comes, to whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me.
And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.