A man named Lazarus, from Bethany, the village of Mary and his sister Martha, was then ill.
Mary was the one who anointed the Lord with perfume and dried her feet with her hair. And Lazarus, who was ill, was his brother.
Then his sisters sent to say to Jesus: "Lord, behold, the one you love is sick."
Hearing this, Jesus said: —This disease is not for death but for the glory of God; so that the Son of God may be glorified by it.
Jesus loved Martha, her sister, and Lazarus.
When he heard that he was ill, he stayed two more days in the place where he was.
and then after this he said to his disciples, "Let us go to Judea again."
His disciples said to him, "Rabbi, recently the Jews were trying to stone you, and are you going there again?"
Jesus answered: "Doesn't the day have twelve hours?" If one walks during the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world.
But if you walk at night, you stumble because there is no light in it.
Having said these things, he then said to them: "Our friend Lazarus sleeps but I am going to wake him up."
Then his disciples said, "Lord, if he sleeps he will be healed."
However, Jesus had said this about the death of Lazarus, but they thought he was talking about the rest of the dream.
So then Jesus said clearly to them: —Lazarus is dead;
and because of you I am glad that I was not there to make you believe. But let's go to him.
Then Thomas, who was called Didymus, said to his fellow students: "Let us also go so that we may die with him."
When Jesus arrived, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days.
Bethany was near Jerusalem, about three kilometers,
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to comfort them for their brother.
Then, when she heard that Jesus was coming, Martha went out to meet him, but Mary remained sitting at home.
Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
But now I also know that whatever you ask of God, God will give it to you.
Jesus said to him, "Your brother will rise again."
Martha said to him, "I know that he will rise in the resurrection on the last day."
Jesus said to him, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, even if he dies, will live.
And everyone who lives and believes in me will not die forever. Do you believe this
He said, "Yes, Lord; I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who was to come into the world.
And when he had said this, he went and secretly called his sister Maria saying: —The Master is here and calls you.
When she heard it, she got up quickly and went to where he was;
for Jesus had not yet reached the village but was at the place where Martha had found him.
So when the Jews who were in the house with her and comforted her, when they saw that Mary got up quickly and went out, they followed her because they thought [a] that she was going to the tomb to cry there.
Then, when Mary came to the place where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet saying, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died."
Then Jesus, seeing her crying and seeing the Jews who had come with her also crying, was moved in spirit and was troubled.
And he said, "Where did they put it?" They said to him, "Sir, come and see."
Jesus wept.
Then the Jews said, "Look how I loved him [b].
But some of them said: "Couldn't this man, who opened his eyes to the blind man, also make Lazarus not die?"
Jesus, moved again within himself, went to the tomb. It was a cave, and he had a stone set against the entrance.
Jesus said, "Take the stone away. Marta, the sister of the one who had died, said to him: "Sir, it stinks already because it is four days old."
Jesus said to him, "Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?"
Then they removed the stone, and Jesus looked up and said, "Father, I thank you that you heard me."
I knew that you always hear me but I said it because of the people around you, so that they believe that you have sent me.
Having said this, he called out with a loud voice: "Lazarus, come outside!"
And the one who had been dead came out, tied his hands and feet with bandages, and his face wrapped in a shroud. Jesus said to them, "Untie him and let him go.
Many of the Jews who had come to Mary and had seen what Jesus had done believed in him.
But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the Sanhedrin and said: "What do we do?" Well, this man makes many signs.
If we let him continue like this everyone will believe in him; and the Romans will come and destroy our place and our nation.
Then one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest in that year, said to them: —You know nothing;
nor do they consider that [c] it is convenient for one man to die for the people, and not for the entire nation to perish.
But he did not say this about himself, but as the high priest of that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die for the nation;
and not only for the nation but also to reunite in one the scattered children of God.
So from that day on they resolved to kill him.
Therefore, Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews but went from there to the region that is next to the desert, to a city called Ephraim; and he was there with his disciples.
The Passover of the Jews was near, and many went from that region to Jerusalem before Passover to purify themselves.
They were looking for Jesus and they were saying to each other, being in the temple: —What do you think? Maybe he won't even come to the party?
The chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he would report it so that they would take him prisoner.
