On the third day a wedding was celebrated in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
Jesus was also invited with his disciples to the wedding.
And when the wine was lacking, the mother of Jesus said to him: “They have no wine.
Jesus said to her, "What does that have to do with me and you, woman?" It has not come my time yet.
His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
There were six stone water jars there, according to the Jewish rites for purification. In each of them there was room for forty to seventy-four liters.
Jesus said to them, "Fill the jars with water. And they filled them until the edge.
Then he said to them, "Take them out now and take him to the banquet attendant." They took him;
and when the man in charge of the banquet tasted the ready-made water, he came (and did not know where it came from, although the servants who had drawn the water did), called the groom
And he said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first, and when they have had enough, then he takes out the bottom one." But you have kept the good wine until now.
This beginning of signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him.
After this, he descended to Capernaum with his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; and they stayed there not many days.
The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
He found in the temple those who sold cattle, sheep and pigeons, and the seated moneychangers.
And after making a rope whip, he drove them all out of the temple along with the sheep and cattle. He scattered the money from the money changers and overturned the tables.
To those who sold pigeons he said: "Get these things out of here and don't make my Father's house a market place anymore!
Then his disciples remembered that it was written: Zeal for your house will consume me.
The Jews answered and said to him, "Since you do these things, what sign do you show us?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up."
So the Jews said, "For forty-six years this temple was built, and will you raise it up in three days?"
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
So when he was raised from the dead his disciples remembered that he had said this and they believed the Scripture and the words that Jesus had said.
While he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name by observing the signs he was doing.
But Jesus himself did not trust them, because he knew them all
and because he did not need anyone to give him testimony about men, because he knew what was in man.