I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine grower.
Every branch that does not bear fruit in me, he takes away; and everyone who bears fruit prunes it so that it bears more fruit.
You are already clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.
Stay in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself if it does not remain in the vine, neither can you if you do not remain in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches; He who abides in me and I in him, he bears much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing.
If anyone does not remain in me, he is thrown out like a branch and dries up; and they pick them up, throw them into the fire and burn.
If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask what you want and it will be done for you.
In this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and thus you prove that you are my disciples.
As the Father has loved me, so I have also loved you; remain in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and remain in his love.
These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy is in you, and your joy is perfect.
This is my commandment: love one another, just as I have loved you.
No one has a greater love than this: that one give his life for his friends.
You are my friends if you do what I command you.
I no longer call you servants, because the servant does not know what his master is doing; But I have called you friends, because I have made known to you all that I have heard from my Father.
You did not choose me, but I chose you, and I appointed you to go and bear fruit, and that your fruit remain; so that whatever you ask the Father in my name he may grant you.
This I command you: to love one another.
If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before you.
If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but since you are not of the world, but I chose you from the world, that is why the world hates you.
Remember the word that I said to you: "A servant is not greater than his master." If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
But all this they will do to you because of my name, because they do not know the one who sent me.
If I had not come and not spoken to you, you would have no sin, but now you have no excuse for your sin.
He who hates me also hates my Father.
If I had not done among them the works that no one else has done, they would have no sin; but now they have seen them, and they have hated me and also my Father.
But they have done this to enforce the word that is written in their law: "They hated me without cause."
When the Comforter comes, whom I will send from the Father, that is, the Spirit of truth that proceeds from the Father, He will give testimony of me,
and you will also bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.