After these things, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And there is in Jerusalem, next to the door of the sheep, a pool that in Hebrew is called Bethesda, which has five porticos.
In these lay a multitude of sick, blind, lame and paralyzed people waiting for the movement of the water.
For an angel descended from time to time into the pool and stirred the water; and the one who first descended into the pond after the movement of the water was healed of any illness he had.
And there was a man who had been sick for thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw this man lying down and knew that he had been like this for a long time, he said to him: Do you want to be healed?
Sir, the sick man replied, I have no one to put me in the pond when the water is shaken, because meanwhile I am going, someone else descends before me.
Jesus said to him: Get up, take up your bed and walk.
And instantly that man was healed, and he took his bed and walked away. And that day was a Sabbath.
Then the Jews said to the one who had been healed: It is a Sabbath; it is not lawful for you to carry your bed.
He answered them: He who healed me said to himself, Take up your bed and walk.
Then they asked him: Who is it that said to you: Take up your bed and walk?
But the one who had been healed did not know who he was, because Jesus had separated himself from the people who were in that place.
Then Jesus found him in the temple and said to him: Behold, you have been healed; sin no more, lest something worse happen to you.
He left and warned the Jews that Jesus was the one who had healed him.
And for this reason the Jews persecuted Jesus and tried to kill him, because he did these things on the Sabbath.
And Jesus answered them: My Father works until now, and I work.
So, for this reason the Jews even more tried to kill him, because he not only broke the Sabbath, but also said that God was his own Father, making himself equal to God.
Then Jesus answered and said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son cannot do anything by himself, but what he sees the Father doing; for everything that the Father does, this the Son also does in the same way.
Because the Father loves the Son and shows him all the things that he does; and greater works than these it will show him, so that you marvel.
For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so the Son also gives life to those whom he loves.
For the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,
so that everyone honors the Son as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not come to condemnation, but has passed from death to life.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear it will live.
For as the Father has life in himself, so he gave the Son also to have life in himself;
and he also gave him power to pass judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
Do not marvel at this, for the hour will come when all who are in the graves will hear his voice;
And those who have done good will come out to the resurrection of life, but those who have done evil will come to the resurrection of condemnation.
I cannot do anything by myself; as I hear, I judge; And my judgment is just, because I do not seek my will, but the will of the Father, who sent me.
If I testify to myself, my testimony is not true.
Another is the one who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony of me is true.
You sent to ask Juan, and he testified to the truth.
But I do not receive testimony from any man; but I say this so that you may be saved.
He was a torch that burned and lit, and you wanted to rejoice for a while in his light.
But I have a greater testimony than Juan's; because the works that the Father gave me to complete, the same works that I do, testify of me, that the Father has sent me.
And the Father who sent me has testified of me. You have never heard his voice, nor have you seen his appearance
nor do you have his word abiding in you, because the one he sent, you do not believe.
Search the Scriptures, because it seems to you that you have eternal life; and they are the ones that bear witness to me.
And you don't want to come to me so that you have life.
I do not receive glory from men.
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in you.
I have come in the name of my Father, and you do not receive me; If another comes in his own name, you will receive that one.
How can you believe, you who receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God?
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; there is another who accuses you: Moses, in whom you have placed your hope.
Because if you believed Moses, you would believe me, because he wrote about me.
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?