After this, Jesus went to the other side of the Sea of ​​Galilee, that of Tiberias.
And a large crowd followed him, for they saw the signs he was performing on the sick.
Jesus went up the mountain and sat there with his disciples.
And the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Then Jesus, looking up and seeing that a great crowd was coming towards Him, said * to Philip: Where will we buy bread for these to eat?
But he said this to prove it, because he knew what he was going to do.
Felipe answered him: Two hundred denarii of bread will not be enough for each one to receive a piece.
One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, said * to Jesus:
Here is a boy who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what is this for so many?
Jesus said: Make the people lie down. And there was a lot of grass in that place. So the men leaned back, numbering about five thousand.
Then Jesus took the loaves, and having given thanks, he distributed them to those who were lying down; and he did the same with the fish, giving them everything they wanted.
When they were satisfied, he said * to his disciples: Collect the excess pieces, so that nothing is lost.
So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
The people then, seeing the sign that Jesus had made, said: Truly this is the Prophet who was to come to the world.
So Jesus, realizing that they were going to come and take him away by force to make him king, retired again to Mount He alone.
In the evening his disciples descended into the sea,
and getting on a boat, they went across the sea, towards Capernaum. It was already dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them;
and the sea was rough because a strong wind was blowing.
When they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw * Jesus walking on the sea and approaching the boat; and they were scared.
But He said to them *: It is I; fear not.
So they wanted to receive him in the boat, and immediately the boat reached the land where they were going.
The next day, the crowd on the other side of the sea realized that there was only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered it with his disciples, but that his disciples had left alone.
Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
So when the people saw that Jesus was not there, nor did his disciples, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum looking for Jesus.
When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when did you get here?
Jesus answered them and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen signs, but because you have eaten of the loaves and have been satisfied.
Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you, because this is the one whom the Father, God, has marked with his seal.
Then they said to him: What must we do to put into practice the works of God?
Jesus answered and said to them: This is the work of God: that you believe in the one that He has sent.
Then they said to him, What then do you do as a sign that we may see and believe you? What work do you do?
Our parents ate manna in the desert, as it is written: "HE GAVE THEM EAT BREAD FROM HEAVEN."
Then Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven, but it is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.
Because the bread of God is the one that comes down from heaven, and gives life to the world.
Then they said to him: Lord, always give us this bread.
Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life; He who comes to me will not be hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty.
But I already told you that although you have seen me, you do not believe.
All that the Father gives me will come to me; And whoever comes to me, I will in no way cast out.
Because I have come down from heaven, not to do my will, but the will of the one who sent me.
And this is the will of the one who sent me: that of all that He has given me I will not lose anything, but will raise it up on the last day.
Because this is the will of my Father: that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him, has eternal life, and I myself will resurrect him on the last day.
That is why the Jews murmured about Him, because he had said: I am the bread that came down from heaven.
And they said: Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How come he now says, "I have come down from heaven"?
Jesus answered and said to them: Do not murmur among yourselves.
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings him, and I will raise him up on the last day.
It is written in the prophets: "AND ALL WILL BE TAUGHT BY GOD." Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me.
It is not that someone has seen the Father; but he who comes from God has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
Your parents ate manna in the desert, and died.
This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that whoever eats it will not die.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven; if anyone eats this bread, he will live forever; and the bread that I will also give for the life of the world is my meat.
The Jews then contended with each other, saying: How can this man give us his meat to eat?
Then Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, if you do not eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
Because my meat is true food, and my blood is true drink.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him.
As the living Father sent me, and I live for the Father, likewise the one who eats me, he will also live for me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven; not like the one your parents ate, and died; He who eats this bread will live forever.
This Jesus said in the synagogue, when he was teaching in Capernaum.
That is why many of his disciples, when they heard this, said: This declaration is hard; Who can hear it?
But Jesus, knowing within himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: Does this scandalize you?
What if you saw the Son of Man ascend to where he was before?
The Spirit is the one who gives life; meat is of no use; the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life.
But there are some of you who don't believe. Because Jesus knew from the beginning who were those who did not believe, and who was the one who was going to betray him.
And he said: That is why I have told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has granted him.
As a result of this many of his disciples turned away and no longer walked with Him.
Then Jesus said to the twelve: Do you want to go too?
Simon Peter answered him: Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life.
And we have believed and known that you are the Holy One of God.
Jesus answered them: Did I not choose you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil?
And He was referring to Judas, son of Simon Iscariot, because he, one of the twelve, was going to deliver him.