Before the Passover feast, Jesus knowing that his hour had come to pass from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
And during dinner, as the devil had already placed in the heart of Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, the one who delivered him,
Jesus, knowing that the Father had put all things in his hands, and that he had come from God and was returning to God,
He * got up * from dinner and took off * his cloak, and taking a towel, he put it on.
Then he poured * water into a bowl, and began to wash the disciples' feet and wipe them dry with the towel that he had on.
Then he * came to Simon Peter. He said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him, Now you do not understand what I am doing, but you will understand later.
Pedro replied *: You will never wash my feet! Jesus answered him: If I do not wash you, you have no part with me.
Simon Peter said to him *: Lord, then not only the feet, but also the hands and the head.
Jesus said to him *: He who has bathed does not need to wash himself, except his feet, because everything is clean; and you are clean, but not all.
Because he knew who was going to deliver him; therefore he said: Not all of you are clean.
Then, when he finished washing their feet, he took up his cloak, and sitting down at the table again, he said to them: Do you know what I have done to you?
You call me Master and Lord; And you are right, because I am.
For if I, the Lord and the Master, washed your feet, you must also wash each other's feet.
For I have given you an example, so that as I have done to you, you also may do.
Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is an envoy greater than the one who sent him.
If you know this, you will be happy if you practice it.
I'm not talking about all of you; I know the ones I have chosen; but it is so that the Scripture is fulfilled: "THE ONE WHO EATS MY BREAD HAS RAISED HIS HEAT AGAINST ME."
I tell you from now on, before it happens, so that when it happens, you will believe that I am.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
Jesus having said this, he was distressed in spirit, and testified and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.
The disciples looked at each other, and were puzzled without knowing who they were talking about.
One of his disciples, the one Jesus loved, was reclining at the table on Jesus' chest.
So Simon Peter * beckoned to him and said *: Tell us who he is talking about.
Leaning back on Jesus' chest, he said to him, "Lord, who is it?
Then Jesus answered *: It is he to whom I will give the bite that I am going to dip. And after wetting the mouthful, he took it * and gave it * to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
And after the bite, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him *: What you are going to do, do it soon.
But none of those sitting at the table understood why he said this.
Because some thought that since Judas had the money bag, Jesus said to him: Buy what we need for the party, or to give something to the poor.
And Judas, after receiving the morsel, immediately went out; and it was already night.
Then when he came out, Jesus said *: Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in Him.
If God is glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him at once.
Little children, I will be with you a little longer. You will look for me, and as I said to the Jews, now I also say to you: where I am going, you cannot go.
I give you a new commandment: love one another; that as I have loved you, so also love one another.
In this they will all know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.
Simon Peter said to him *: Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied: Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow me later.
Peter said to him *: Lord, why can't I follow you right now? I will give my life for you!
Jesus answered him *: Will you give your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow without you denying me three times before.