After this, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples by the Tiberian Sea, and manifested himself this way:
Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, Nathanael from Cana of Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples were together.
Simon Peter said to them *: I am going to fish. They said to him *: We also go with you. They went and got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing.
When it was dawn, Jesus was on the beach; but the disciples did not know it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them *: Children, do you have any fish? They answered: No.
And He said to them: Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find fishing. So they threw her out, and they couldn't get her out because of the large number of fish.
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved * said to Peter: He is the Lord! Hearing, therefore, Simon Peter that he was the Lord, he put his clothes on (because he had taken them off so that he could work), and he threw himself into the sea.
But the other disciples came in the boat, because they were not far from land, but about a hundred meters, dragging the net full of fish.
Then, when they went ashore, they saw * coals already in place and a fish placed on them, and bread.
Jesus said to them *: Bring some of the fish that you have caught now.
Simon Peter got into the boat and took the net ashore, full of big fish, one hundred and fifty-three; and although there were so many, the network did not break.
Jesus said to them *: Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples dared to ask him: Who are you ?, knowing that it was the Lord.
Jesus came *, took * the bread and gave it to him *; and he did the same with the fish.
This was the third time that Jesus manifested himself to the disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
Then, when they had finished having breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Peter said to him *: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said to him *: Feed my lambs.
And he said to him a second time: Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter said to him *: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said to him *: Shepherd my sheep.
* He said to him a third time: Simon, son of John, do you love me? Pedro was sad because the third time he said: Do you love me? And he answered him: Lord, you know everything; you know I love you. Jesus said to him *: Feed my sheep.
Truly, truly, I tell you: when you were younger you dressed and walked where you wanted; but when you are old you will stretch out your hands and another will clothe you and take you where you don't want.
This he said, hinting at the kind of death with which Peter would glorify God. And having said this, he said to him: "Follow me.
Turning, Peter * saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them, the one who at dinner had leaned on Jesus' chest and said: Lord, who is it that is going to deliver you?
When Peter saw him, * he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this man?"
Jesus said to him *: If I want him to stay until I come, what to you? Follow me.
That is why the saying spread among the brothers that that disciple would not die; But Jesus did not say that he would not die, but: If I want him to stay until I come, what to you?
This is the disciple who testifies to these things and the one who wrote this, and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things that Jesus did, that if they were written * in detail, I don't think even the world itself could * contain the books that would be written *.