As Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, so that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but it was so that the works of God might be manifested in him.
I have to do the works of the one who sent me, while the day lasts; the night comes when nobody can work.
While I am in the world, I am light of the world.
Saying this, he spat on the ground, and made mud with the saliva, and smeared the blind man's eyes with the mud.
and said to him: Go, wash in the pool of Siloe (which means Envoy). So he went and washed; and when he returned, he already saw.
Then the neighbors and those who had previously seen that he was blind said: Is not this the one who sat and begged?
Some said: This is it; and others: He looks like him. He said: I am.
And they said to him, How were your eyes opened?
He answered and said: The man whose name is Jesus made mud, and he smeared my eyes and said to me: Go to Siloé and wash yourself. And I went, and I washed and I received the sight.
Then they said to him: Where is he? He said: I don't know.
They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been blind.
And it was the Sabbath when Jesus had made the mud and opened his eyes.
So the Pharisees also asked him again how he had received his sight. And he said to them: He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and now I see.
Then some of the Pharisees said: This man is not of God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. Others said: How can a sinful man do these miracles? And there was dissension between them.
They said to the blind man again: What do you say about the one who opened your eyes? And he said: That he is a prophet.
But the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received sight, until they called the parents of the one who had received sight;
And they asked them, saying: Is this your son, the one you say was born blind? How, then, do you see now?
His parents responded and said: We know that this is our son and that he was born blind;
but how he sees now, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we don't know either; he is old, ask him; he will speak for himself.
This was said by his parents, because they were afraid of the Jews, because the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that Jesus was the Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue.
That is why his parents said: He is old, ask him.
So they called the man who had been blind again and said: Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
Then he answered and said: If he is a sinner, I do not know; One thing I know, that having been blind, now I see.
And they said to him again: What did he do to you? How did it open your eyes?
He answered them: I have already told you, and you have not heard it. Why do you want to hear it again? Will you also become his disciples?
Then they insulted him and said: You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God spoke to Moses, but he does not know where he is from.
That man answered and said to them: Well this is the wonderful thing, that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes.
And we know that God does not hear sinners; but if anyone is fearful of God and does his will, he hears.
From the beginning it has never been heard of anyone opening the eyes of one who was born blind.
If it did not come from God, it could not do anything.
They answered and said to him, You were born entirely in sin, and do you teach us? And they threw him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; And when he found him, he said to him, Do you believe in the Son of God?
He answered and said to him, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?
And Jesus said to him, You have already seen him, and he who speaks to you is him.
And he said: I believe, Lord; and adored him.
And Jesus said: I have come into this world for judgment, so that those who do not see may see, and those who see may be blinded.
And some of the Pharisees who were with him, when they heard this, said to him, Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them: If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now, because you say: We see, your sin remains.