After this, Jesus was walking in Galilee, because he did not want to walk through Judea because the Jews tried to kill him.
And the feast of the Jews, that of the Tabernacles, was near.
That is why his brothers said to him: Get out of here, and go to Judea so that your disciples also see the works that you do.
Because nobody does anything in secret when trying to be known in public. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.
Because not even his brothers believed in him.
Then Jesus said to them *: My time has not yet come, but your time is always opportune.
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I bear witness to it that its actions are bad.
You go up to the party; I do not go to this party because my time has not yet been fulfilled.
And having said this to them, he remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers went up to the party, then He also went up; not openly, but secretly.
So the Jews looked for him at the party and said: Where is that one?
And there was a lot of gossip among the people about Him. Some said: He is good. Others said: No, on the contrary, it misleads people.
However, no one spoke openly about Him for fear of the Jews.
But halfway through the party, Jesus went up to the temple and began to teach.
Then the Jews marveled, saying: How can this knowledge of letters without having studied?
Jesus then answered them and said: My teaching is not mine, but the one that sent me.
If someone wants to do his will, he will know if my teaching is from God or if I speak about myself.
He who speaks of himself seeks his own glory; But he who seeks the glory of him who sent him, this is true and there is no injustice in him.
Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keep it? Why are you trying to kill me?
The crowd replied: You have a demon! Who is trying to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them: I did only one work and you all admire yourselves.
That is why Moses has given you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the parents), and on the Sabbath you circumcise the man.
And if in order not to violate the law of Moses a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, why are you mad at me because I completely healed a man on the Sabbath?
Do not judge by appearance, but judge with fair judgment.
Then some of Jerusalem said: Is not this the one they are trying to kill?
And see, he speaks in public and they don't tell him anything. Is it not that the rulers really recognize that this is the Christ?
However, we know where this is from; but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he is from.
Then Jesus, while teaching in the temple, exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: You know me and you know where I am from. I did not come on my own, but the one who sent me is true, whom you do not know.
I know Him, because I come from Him, and He sent me.
So they tried to catch him; but no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come.
But many of the crowd believed in him, and said: When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than what he has done?
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent bailiffs to arrest him.
Then Jesus said: For a little while I am with you; then I go to the one who sent me.
You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot go.
Then the Jews said to one another: Where does this man intend to go that we do not find him? Could it be that he wants to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
What does this mean that he has said: "You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot go"?
And on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink.
He who believes in me, as Scripture has said: "Rivers of living water will flow from the deepest part of his being."
But He said this of the Spirit, that those who had believed in Him were to receive; for the Spirit had not yet been given, for Jesus had not yet been glorified.
Then some of the crowd, when they heard these words, said: Truly this is the Prophet.
Others said: This is the Christ. But others said: Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was from?
So a division arose among the crowd because of Him.
And some of them wanted to catch him, but no one laid a hand on him.
Then the bailiffs came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them: Why did you not bring him?
The bailiffs replied: No man has ever spoken as this man speaks!
Then the Pharisees answered them: Have you also been deceived?
Has any of the rulers, or the Pharisees, believed in Him?
But this crowd that doesn't know the law is cursed.
Nicodemus, the one who had come to Jesus before, and who was one of them, said to them *:
Does our law judge a man unless he hears him first and knows what he is doing?
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Investigate, and you will see that no prophet arises from Galilee.
And each one went home.