These things Jesus spoke, and lifting his eyes to heaven, he said: Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son, so that the Son glorifies you,
because you gave authority over every human being to give eternal life to all those that you have given him.
And this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.
I glorified you on earth, having finished the work you gave me to do.
And now, glorify me, Father, with you, with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.
I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me from the world; They were yours and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
Now they have known that everything you have given me comes from you;
because I have given them the words that you gave me; And they received them, and they understood that I really came out of you, and they believed that you sent me.
I pray for them; I do not pray for the world, but for those you have given me; because they are yours;
and all mine is yours, and yours is mine; and I have been glorified in them.
I'm not in the world anymore, but they are in the world, and I'm going to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name that you have given me, so that they may be one, just like us.
When I was with them, I kept them in your name, the name you gave me; and I kept them and none was lost, except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled.
But now I come to you; and I speak this in the world so that you have my complete joy in yourself.
I have given you your word and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in truth; Your word is truth.
As you sent me into the world, I have also sent them into the world.
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified through the truth.
But I do not pray only for these, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,
so that they are all one. As you, Father, are in me and I in you, may they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me.
The glory that you gave me I have given them, so that they are one, just as we are one:
I in them, and you in me, so that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world knows that you sent me, and that you loved them just as you have loved me.
Father, I want those whom you have given me to be with me where I am also, so that they may see my glory, the glory that you have given me; because you have loved me since before the foundation of the world.
Oh fair Father, although the world has not known you, I have known you, and these have known that you sent me.
I have made your name known to them, and I will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me is in them and I in them.