Before the Passover feast, Jesus knowing that his hour had come for him to pass from this world to the Father, as he had loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
And after supper, as the devil had already placed in the heart of Judas the son of Simon Iscariot to give him,
Jesus knowing that the Father had given him everything in his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God,
He got up from dinner and took off his cloak and, taking a towel, he put it on.
Then he put water in a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet and dry them with the towel with which he was girded.
Then he came to Simon Peter; And Peter said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him: What you do I do not understand now; but you will understand later.
Pedro said to him: You will never wash my feet. Jesus answered him: If I do not wash you, you will have no part with me.
Simon Peter said to him: Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head.
Jesus said to him: He who is washed need only wash his feet, for he is all clean; and you are clean, although not all.
Because he knew who was going to deliver him; therefore he said: You are not all clean.
So after he had washed their feet, he took up his cloak, sat down at the table again, and said to them: Do you know what I have done to you?
You call me Master and Lord; and you say well, because I am.
For if I, the Lord and the Master, have washed your feet, you also must wash one another's feet.
For I have given you an example, so that as I have done to you, you also may do.
Truly, truly, I say to you, The servant is not greater than his master, nor is the envoy greater than the one who sent him.
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
I'm not talking about all of you; I know who I have chosen; But so that the Scripture may be fulfilled: He who eats bread with me raised his heel against me.
From now on I tell you before it happens, so that when it happens, you believe that I am.
Truly, truly, I say to you: He who receives the one I send, receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
When Jesus had said this, he was moved in the spirit, and he testified and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you is going to deliver me.
Then the disciples looked at each other, not knowing who they were talking about.
And one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining on Jesus' chest.
So Simon Peter beckoned to him, asking him who he was talking about.
He then, leaning on the chest of Jesus, said to him: Lord, who is it?
Jesus answered: He is the one to whom I give the wet bread. And dipping the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot the son of Simon.
And after the bite, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him: What you are going to do, do it soon.
But none of those at the table understood why he said that.
Because some thought that, as Judas had the bag, Jesus said to him: Buy what we need for the party; or to give something to the poor.
When he, then, had taken the bite, he left immediately; and it was already night.
Then, when he came out, Jesus said: Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and will immediately glorify him.
Little children, I will still be with you a little. You will look for me, but, as I said to the Jews: Where I am going, you cannot go; So I say to you now.
I give you a new commandment: Love one another; as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
In this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for each other.
Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied: Where I am going, you cannot follow me now; but you will follow me later.
Peter said to him: Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you!
Jesus answered him: Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you: The rooster will not crow without you denying me three times before.