Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but ascends elsewhere, is a thief and a robber.
But the one who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To this the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; He calls his sheep by name and leads them outside.
When he takes out all his, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
But they will not follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
Jesus spoke to them through this allegory, but they did not understand what He was saying.
Then Jesus said to them again, "Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep ignored them.
I am the door; if anyone enters through me, he will be saved; and he will go in and out and find grass.
The thief only comes to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd; The good shepherd gives his life to the sheep.
But he who is a wage earner and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and abandons the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches and scatters them.
He runs away because he only works for the payment and he doesn't care about the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep and mine know me,
just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep.
I have other sheep that are not of this fold; I also need to bring those, and they will hear my voice, and they will be a flock with only one shepherd.
That is why the Father loves me, because I give my life to take it again.
No one takes it from me, but I give it of my own free will. I have authority to give it, and I have authority to take it again. This commandment I received from my Father.
A division was again raised among the Jews by these words.
And many of them said: He has a demon and he is crazy. Why do you listen to him?
Others said: These are not the words of a demoniac. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
In those days the Feast of Dedication was celebrated in Jerusalem.
It was winter, and Jesus was walking through the temple on Solomon's porch.
Then the Jews surrounded him, and said to him: How long are you going to keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us clearly.
Jesus answered them: I have told you, and you do not believe; the works that I do in the name of my Father, these bear witness to me.
But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them and they follow me;
and I give them eternal life and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
My Father who gave them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from the Father's hand.
I and the Father are one.
The Jews again took stones to stone him.
Jesus said to them: I have shown you many good works that are from the Father. for who of them do you stone at me?
The Jews answered him: We do not stone you for any good deed, but for blasphemy; and because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law: "I SAID: YOU ARE GODS"?
If those, to whom the word of God came, were called gods (and Scripture cannot be violated),
Who did the Father sanctify and send into the world, you say: "Blasphemers", because I said: "I am the Son of God"?
If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me;
but if I do them, even if you don't believe me, believe the works; so that you know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father.
So they tried again to seize him, but it escaped from their hands.
He went back across the Jordan, to the place where John had first been baptizing, and stayed there.
And many came to Him and said: Although John made no sign, yet all that John said of this was true.
And many believed in him there.