Judas, servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those called, loved [a] in God the Father and kept in Jesus Christ:
Mercy, peace and love be multiplied to them.
Beloved, as I strove to write to you about our common salvation, it has been necessary for me to write to exhort you to contend effectively for the faith that was once given to the saints.
Because some men have entered undercover, who since ancient times had been destined for this condemnation. They are wicked men, who convert the grace of our God into debauchery, and deny the only Sovereign [b] and our Lord, Jesus Christ.
Now, I want to remind you, since you have known everything, that the Lord, when he delivered the people once from the land of Egypt, later destroyed those who did not believe.
He has also reserved the angels who did not keep their first state but abandoned their own abode under darkness in eternal prisons for the judgment of the great day.
Likewise, Sodom, Gomorrah and the neighboring cities, which in the same way fornicated and were after vices against the natural, are put for example, suffering the penalty of eternal fire.
In the same way, these dreamers also stain the flesh, reject all authority and curse the higher powers.
But even the archangel Michael, when contending with the devil over the body of Moses, did not dare to pronounce a curse judgment against him, but said: "The Lord rebukes you" [c].
But these curse what they do not know; and in what they instinctively understand, they become corrupted as irrational animals.
Woe to them! Because they have followed the path of Cain [d]; for reward they threw themselves into Balaam's error [e] and perished in Korah's insurrection [f].
These who partake of your fraternal meals are blemishes, feeding themselves without fear. They are clouds without water carried here and there by the winds. They are withered trees as in autumn, without fruit, twice dead and uprooted.
They are fierce waves of the sea that throw the foam of their own abominations. They are wandering stars for whom the deep darkness of darkness is forever reserved.
About them also Enoch prophesied, seventh after Adam, saying: "Behold, the Lord came among his holy thousands
to make judgment against all and to declare every person convicted regarding all his wicked deeds that they have done wickedly, and regarding all the harsh words that wicked sinners have spoken against him "[g].
These complain about everything and criticize everything, walking according to their own bad desires. His mouth speaks arrogance, flattering people to profit.
But you, beloved, remember the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ;
because they said to them: "In the last times there will be scoffers who will walk according to their own passions, as wicked as they are."
These are the ones that cause divisions. They are sensual and do not have the Spirit.
But you, beloved, building on your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourself in the love of God, waiting with hope for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ for eternal life.
Of some who hesitate, have mercy;
save others by snatching them from the fire; and others have mercy, but with caution, hating even the clothes contaminated by their meat.
And to him who is able to keep them without fall and to present them blameless before his glory with great joy;
to the only God [h], our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord, be the glory, the majesty, the dominion and the authority from before all the centuries, now and for all the centuries. Amen.