Judas, servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those called, sanctified in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ:
Mercy, and peace and love be multiplied to you.
Beloved, because of my great desire to write to you of our common salvation, it has been necessary for me to write to you to exhort you to fight energetically for the faith that has been given to the saints.
Because some men have secretly entered, those who previously had been designated for this condemnation, wicked men, who turn into dissolution the grace of our God and deny God, the only sovereign, and our Lord Jesus Christ.
I want to remind you, since you have known this once, that the Lord, having saved the people by removing them from Egypt, then destroyed those who did not believe.
And the angels who did not keep their original state, but left their own abode, he has kept under darkness, in eternal prisons, until the judgment of the great day;
so also Sodom and Gomorrah, and the surrounding cities, which in the same way as those, having fornicated and followed vices against nature, were set as an example when they suffered the judgment of eternal fire.
In the same way also these dreamers taint their flesh, and they despise authority, and they revile the superior powers.
But when the archangel Michael argued with the devil, disputing with him for the body of Moses, he did not dare to pronounce a curse judgment against him, but said: The Lord rebukes you.
But these curse the things they do not know; and in things that by nature they know, like irrational animals, they become corrupted.
Woe to them !, because they have followed the way of Cain, and they threw themselves for profit in the error of Balaam, and they perished in the rebellion of Korah.
These are stains on your fraternal treats when they celebrate together with you, feeding themselves without fear; clouds without water, which are carried here and there by the winds; withered trees as in autumn, without fruit, twice dead and uprooted;
fierce waves of the sea, which foam their own shame; wandering stars, for which the darkness of darkness is eternally reserved.
Of these also Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord comes with his many thousands of saints,
to bring judgment against all, and to rebuke all the wicked among them concerning all his wicked deeds which they have done wickedly, and concerning all the hard things that wicked sinners have spoken against him.
These are murmuring, complaining, who walk according to their own desires, whose mouth speaks arrogantly, flattering people to profit.
But you, beloved, have a memory of the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
those who said to you: In the last times there will be scoffers who will walk according to their evil desires.
These are the ones that cause divisions; the sensual, who do not have the Spirit.
But you, beloved, building yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, for eternal life.
And have compassion for those who doubt.
But save others out of fear, snatching them from the fire; hating even the clothes that have been contaminated by their meat.
To him, therefore, who is able to keep you without fall and present himself blameless before his glory with great joy,
to the only and wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, now and for all centuries. Amen.