Judas, servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those called, loved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:
Mercy, peace and love be multiplied to you.
Beloved, because of the great effort I had to write to you about our common salvation, I have felt the need to write to you exhorting you to contend ardently for the faith that once and for all was given to the saints.
For some men have secretly infiltrated, who long before were marked for this condemnation, wicked who turn the grace of our God into debauchery, and deny our only Sovereign and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Now I want to remind you, although you definitely already know everything, that the Lord, having saved the people from the land of Egypt, later destroyed those who did not believe.
And he has kept angels who did not retain their original lordship, but abandoned their rightful abode, in eternal prisons, under darkness for the judgment of the great day.
So also Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, like those, since they were corrupted and followed strange meat, are exhibited as an example to suffer the punishment of eternal fire.
However, in the same way also these men, dreaming, stain the flesh, reject the authority and blaspheme the angelic majesties.
But when the archangel Michael contended with the devil and disputed about the body of Moses, he did not dare to utter a curse judgment against him, but said: The Lord rebukes you.
But these blasphemers the things that they do not understand, and the things that like irrational animals they know by instinct, by these things they are destroyed.
Woe to them! Because they have followed the way of Cain, and for profit they threw themselves into Balaam's error, and perished in the rebellion of Korah.
These are hidden obstacles in your agapes, when they feast with you without fear, feeding themselves; they are clouds without water carried by the winds, autumn trees without fruit, twice dead and uprooted;
they are furious waves of the sea, that foam their own shame; wandering stars for whom the darkness of darkness has been reserved forever.
Of these also Enoch prophesied, in the seventh generation from Adam, saying: Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his saints,
to execute judgment on all, and to condemn all the wicked for all their wicked deeds, which they have done wickedly, and for all the offensive things that wicked sinners said against Him.
These are murmurs, complainers, who go after their own passions; they speak arrogantly, flattering people for profit.
But you, beloved, remember the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who said to you: In recent times there will be scoffers who will go after their own impious passions.
These are the ones that cause divisions; worldly individuals who do not have the Spirit.
But you, beloved, edifying yourselves in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in the love of God, anxiously awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ for eternal life.
And have mercy on some who doubt;
save others by snatching them from the fire; and have mercy on others with fear, hating even the flesh-contaminated clothing.
And to him who is mighty to keep you without fall and to present you without blemish in the presence of his glory with great joy,
to the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion and authority, before all time, and now and for all time. Amen.