The cockroach, the chicken, the coyote and the lord
There was a rabbit that needed money, and he went to the roach and asked for it.
And he told him that the day he picks his cornfield, he should come and pick his corn. And the rabbit left for his money.
The money ran out again, so the rabbit went to the hen, and said she was going to give him corn, just as she had told the roach.
The money ran out again, so it was with the coyote
And the money ran out again. And this time he went to a man, and said he was going to give him corn.
The day came when they all went with the rabbit to receive their corn.
The cockroach came and said to the rabbit:
"Here I am so you can give me my corn," he said to the rabbit.
And the rabbit said to the roach:
-It can. Wait for me, but hide there! Otherwise the hen will come and eat you
Said the rabbit.
And the cockroach hid.
And the chicken came and said:
-I'm here. Give me my corn!
And he said:
"Wait there for me to see what you can find to eat."
And he saw the roach and ate it. And the rabbit told him to hide in the undergrowth.
Otherwise the coyote was going to arrive and eat it.
And the coyote came and said that he had come to receive his corn.
And the rabbit said to him:
"Wait and look in the brush there to see if you can find something to eat," he said.
And the coyote found the chicken and ate it.
Then the rabbit also said to the coyote:
"Hide in the kid there." Otherwise the man will come and kill you
The rabbit said to the coyote.
And that man came and said to the rabbit:
"Here I am so you can give me my corn."
And the rabbit said to him:
—Look there inside the chiquihuite to see what you find to eat. Then let's go, ”he said.
And he saw the coyote and killed him. And so it ended.
Then the two of them left. And there was a bridge, and the rabbit passed it several times because of course it doesn't weigh much.
Then the man passed, and when he was in the middle of the bridge, it collapsed; and the lord fell into the ravine.
Then the rabbit returned home very happy.
