But on the first day of the week, at dawn, the women came to the tomb bringing the aromatic spices they had prepared.
And they found that the stone had been removed from the grave,
and when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass that being they perplexed by this, suddenly two men stood beside them in shining garments;
And when they were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them: Why do you look for the living among the dead?
He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee,
saying that the Son of Man should be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.
So they remembered his words,
And returning from the grave, they announced all these things to the eleven and to all the others.
They were María Magdalena and Juana y María, Jacobo's mother; the other women with them also referred these things to the apostles.
And to them these words seemed like nonsense, and they did not believe them.
But Peter got up and ran to the grave; and bending down to look inside, he saw * only the linen wraps; and he went home, amazed at what had happened.
And behold, that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, which was about eleven kilometers from Jerusalem.
And they talked among themselves about all these things that had happened.
And it happened that while they were talking and arguing, Jesus himself came up and walked with them.
But his eyes were blurred so that they did not recognize him.
And He said to them: What are these discussions that you have among yourselves while you are walking? And they stopped, looking sad.
Responding one of them, named Cleophas, said to him: Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened in these days?
Then He said to them: What things? And they said to him: Those referring to Jesus the Nazarene, who was a powerful prophet in deed and in word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to death and crucified him.
But we hoped that He was the one who was going to redeem Israel. But in addition to all this, this is the third day since these things happened.
And also some women among us amazed us; because when they went to the grave at dawn,
and when they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen an appearance of angels who said that He lived.
Some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had also said; but they did not see Him.
Then Jesus said to them: O foolish and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have said!
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer all these things and enter into his glory?
And beginning with Moses and continuing with all the prophets, he explained the reference to Him in all the Scriptures.
They approached the village where they were going, and He pretended to go further.
And they urged him, saying: Stay with us, because it is getting dark, and the day has already declined. And he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he was sitting at the table with them, that he took bread, and blessed it; and breaking it, he gave them.
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him; but He disappeared from their presence.
And they said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us as he spoke to us on the road, when he opened the Scriptures to us?
And rising up in that very hour, they returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together,
who said: It is true that the Lord has risen and appeared to Simon.
And they related their experiences on the road, and how they had recognized him in the breaking of bread.
As they related these things, Jesus stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you.
But they, terrified and scared, thought they saw a spirit.
And He said to them: Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your heart?
Look at my hands and my feet, for I am myself; Feel me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh or bones as you see that I have.
And when he said this, he showed them his hands and feet.
As they still did not believe it because of the joy and they were amazed, he said to them: Do you have something to eat here?
Then they presented him with part of a roasted fish.
And He took it and ate in front of them.
And he said to them: This is what I was saying to you when I was still with you: that it was necessary to fulfill everything that is written about me in the law of Moses, in the prophets and in the psalms.
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
And he said to them: Thus it is written, that the Christ suffered and rose from the dead on the third day;
and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
You are witnesses to these things.
And behold, I will send upon you the promise of my Father; but you, remain in the city until you are endowed with power from on high.
Then he led them out of the city, to near Bethany, and raising his hands, blessed them.
And it came to pass that while he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
They, after worshiping him, returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and they were always in the temple praising God.