And it came to pass one day that, teaching Jesus to the people in the temple and preaching the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came, with the elders,
And they spoke to him, saying, Tell us: By what authority do you do these things, or who is it that has given you this authority?
Then Jesus answered and said to them: I will also ask you a question; answer me:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
And they argued among themselves, saying: If we say, from heaven, he will say: Why then did you not believe him?
And if we say, of men, all the people will stone us, because they are convinced that John was a prophet.
And they replied that they did not know where he was from.
Then Jesus said to them: Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
And he began to tell the people this parable: A man planted a vineyard, and leased it to farmers, and was absent for a long time.
And in due time he sent a servant to the husbandmen to give him the fruit of the vineyard; but the farmers beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
And again he sent another servant; but they also beat him and insulted him and sent him empty-handed.
And he sent again a third servant; but they also threw this out, wounded.
Then the lord of the vineyard said: What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; Maybe when they see this one, they will have respect for him.
But the farmers, seeing him, thought among themselves, saying: This is the heir; Come, let us kill him so that the inheritance is ours.
And they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. What, then, will the lord of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy these farmers, and will give his vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said: God save us!
But he, looking at them, said: What, then, is what is written: The stone that the builders rejected, has this become the head of the corner?
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken; but on whom the stone falls, will crush him.
And the chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him at that hour, because they understood that he had spoken this parable against them; but they feared the people.
And, stalking him, they sent spies who pretended to be fair, in order to surprise him in their words, to hand him over to the power and authority of the governor.
And they asked him, saying: Master, we know that you say and teach with righteousness, and that you do not respect people, but teach the way of God with truth.
Is it lawful for us to pay tribute to Caesar, or not?
But he, understanding their cunning, said to them: Why do you tempt me?
Show me the coin. Whose image and inscription do you have? And answering, they said: Of Caesar.
Then he said to them: Well give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's.
And they could not surprise him in his words in front of the people, but, marveled at his response, they remained silent.
And approaching one of the Sadducees, who deny that there is a resurrection, they asked him,
Saying: Teacher, Moses wrote to us: If someone's brother dies having a wife, and dies without children, let his brother take her and raise offspring for his brother.
So there were seven brothers; and the first took a wife and died childless.
And the second took her, who also died childless.
And the third took it; likewise also all seven. And they died without leaving descendants.
And finally, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, then, whose wife will she be? Because the seven had her as a wife.
Then Jesus answered and said to them: The children of this world marry and give in marriage;
But those who are considered worthy of reaching that world and of the resurrection from the dead, do not marry or give in marriage.
Because they can no longer die, because they are equal to angels, and they are children of God as children of the resurrection.
But as for the dead to be raised, even Moses taught it in the bush passage, when he calls to the Lord: God of Abraham, and God of Isaac and God of Jacob.
Because God is not the God of the dead, but of the living, because for him everyone lives.
And some of the scribes answered him and said, Master, you have well said.
And they didn't dare ask him anything else.
And he said to them, How is it that they say that the Christ is the son of David?
For David himself says in the book of Psalms: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Until I make your enemies your footstool.
So David calls him Lord; What, then, is your son like?
And when all the people heard him, he said to his disciples:
Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long clothes, and love greetings in the squares, and the first chairs in the synagogues and the first seats at dinners;
who devour widows' houses and, as a pretext, make long prayers; these will receive greater condemnation.