Then the whole multitude of them got up and took him to Pilate.
And they began to accuse him saying: —We have found this one who agitates our nation, forbids giving tribute to Caesar and says that he is the Christ, a king.
Then Pilate asked him, saying, "Are you the king of the Jews?" Responding, he said, "You say so."
Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowd, "I find no crime in this man."
But they insisted saying: —It disturbs the people teaching throughout Judea, starting from Galilee to here.
Then Pilate, hearing this, asked if the man was a Galilean.
Knowing that it belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he referred him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem in those days.
Herod, seeing Jesus, was very happy because he had wanted to see him for a long time, because he had heard many things about him and hoped that he would see him perform a miracle.
Herod asked him in many words, but Jesus answered him nothing.
The chief priests and scribes were there, vehemently accusing him.
But Herod and his court, after scorning him and mocking him, dressed him in splendid clothing. And he sent it back to Pilate.
That same day Pilate and Herod became friends because before they had been at enmity.
Then Pilate called the chief priests, the magistrates, and the people,
And he said to them, "They have introduced me to this person who leads the people astray." Behold, I have questioned him before you, and I have found no crime in this man of all that he is accused of.
Neither did Herod, because he referred it to us; and behold, he has done nothing worthy of death.
So I will release him after punishing him.
, 18But the whole crowd cried out for one, saying, "Get out with this one!" Release us Barabbas!
, 18But the whole crowd cried out for one, saying, "Get out with this one!" Release us Barabbas!
He had been thrown in prison for sedition in the city and for murder.
Then Pilate spoke to them again wanting to release Jesus.
But they cried out again, saying, "Crucify him!" Crucify Him!
He said to them the third time: "Well, what harm has this done?" I have found no crime of death in him. I will punish him then, and release him.
But they insisted loudly asking that he be crucified. And their voices prevailed.
Then Pilate judged that what they asked for should be done.
He released the one who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, whom they had asked for, and handed Jesus over to their will.
And they, taking him, took a certain Simon of Cyrene, who was coming from the field, and they put the cross on him to carry after Jesus.
He was followed by a large crowd of the people and women, who wept and wailed for him.
But Jesus, turning to them, said: —Daughters of Jerusalem, do not cry for me but cry for yourselves and for your children.
For behold, the days will come when they will say: "Blessed are the barren, the wombs that did not conceive and the breasts that did not nurse."
Then they will begin to say to the mountains, "Fall on us!" and to the mountains: "Cover us!"
Because if they do these things with the green tree, what will be done with the dry tree?
They also took two others, who were criminals, to be executed with him.
When they arrived at the place called the Skull, they crucified him there, and the criminals: one on the right and the other on the left.
And Jesus said: —Father, forgive them, because they don't know what they are doing. And splitting their dresses, they cast lots.
The people stood watching, and even the rulers mocked him saying, "He saved others." Save yourself, if you are the Christ, God's chosen one.
The soldiers also mocked him, approaching him, offering him vinegar
and saying to him, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself."
There was also a written title over it saying: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
One of the criminals who were hanged insulted him saying: —Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!
Answering the other, he rebuked him saying: —You don't even fear God, being in the same condemnation?
We, indeed, suffer with reason because we are receiving what our deeds deserved but this did no harm.
And he said to him, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom."
Then Jesus said to him, "Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise."
When it was about noon, darkness descended on the earth until three in the afternoon.
The sun darkened and the veil of the temple was torn in the middle.
Then Jesus, shouting with a loud voice, said: "Father, into your hands I entrust my spirit!" And having said that, he sighed.
And when the centurion saw what had happened, he gave glory to God saying: —Really this man was just!
And all the crowd that was present at this show, seeing what had happened, came back hitting their chests.
But all his acquaintances, and the women who had followed him from Galilee, stayed away looking at these things.
Behold, there was a man named Joseph, who was a member of the council, and a good and just man.
He had not consented to their advice or their deeds. He was from Arimathea, the city of the Jews, and he also expected the kingdom of God.
He approached Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
After taking him down from the cross, he wrapped him in a linen sheet and placed him in a grave dug in a rock, in which no one had yet been laid.
It was Preparation day and was about to start on Saturday.
The women who had come with him from Galilee also followed him and saw the grave and how the body was laid.
So they returned and prepared aromatic spices and perfumes, and rested on the Sabbath according to the commandment.