It happened that, when Jesus was praying in a certain place, when he finished, one of his disciples said to him: "Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples."
He said to them, "When you pray, say:" [Our Father who is in heaven]: Hallowed be your name; your kingdom come; [your will be done, as it is in heaven, so also on earth]
Give us this day our daily bread;
and forgive us our sins because we also forgive all who owe us. And do not tempt us, [but deliver us from evil]. "
He also said to them: —Let's suppose one of you has a friend and goes to him at midnight and says: "Friend, lend me three loaves
because a traveling friend has come to me and I have nothing to put in front of him. "
Will he answer from the inside: "Don't bother me; the door is already closed and my children are with me in bed; I can't get up to give them to you"?
I tell you that, although he does not get up to give it to you because he is his friend, certainly at his insistence he will get up and give him everything he needs.
"And I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened.
"What father among you, if his son asks for fish, instead of fish will give him a snake?
Or if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?
Jesus was casting out a demon that was mute. And it came to pass that when the demon came forth the dumb man spoke. The crowds were amazed
but some of them said, "By Beelzebul, the prince of demons, cast out demons."
Others, to test him, asked him for a sign from heaven.
But, as he knew their reasoning, he told them: —Every kingdom divided against itself is ruined and falls house upon house.
And if Satan is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? Well you say that for Beelzebul I cast out demons.
And if I cast out demons for Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be their judges.
But if by the finger of God I cast out demons, surely the kingdom of God has come to you.
When the strong, armed man guards his own home, his possessions are at peace.
But if someone stronger than him comes and defeats him, he takes all the weapons he trusted and distributes his remains.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
"When the unclean spirit has left a man, he goes through dry places looking for rest and, when he cannot find it, he says:" I will return to my house where I came from. "
And when he returns, he finds it swept and adorned.
So he goes and brings seven other spirits worse than himself. And after entering, they live there; and that man's final state becomes worse than the first.
While he was saying these things, it happened that a woman from the crowd raised her voice and said: "Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts that you suckled!
And he said, "Rather, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
And crowding the crowds, he began to say, "This generation is an evil generation. Ask for a sign, and no sign will be given to you but the sign of Jonah.
For as Jonah was a sign to the inhabitants of Nineveh, so also will the Son of Man be to this generation.
The queen of the South will rise up in judgment against the men of this generation and will condemn them because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, one greater than Solomon is in this place!
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment against this generation and condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, one greater than Jonah is in this place!
"When lighting a lamp, no one places it hidden or under a drawer but on a candlestick so that all who enter see the light.
The lamp of your body is your eye. When your eye is healthy, your whole body is also full of light. But when it is bad, your body is also in darkness.
Look, then, lest the light within you be darkness.
So if your whole body is full of light and has no dark part, it will be full of light as when a lamp shines on you with its glow. "
When Jesus finished speaking, a Pharisee begged him to eat with him; And when Jesus had entered his house, he sat down at the table.
And the Pharisee was amazed to see that he did not wash before eating.
Then the Lord said to him, "You Pharisees clean the outside of the cup or the plate, but the inside of you is full of rapine and evil.
Fools, didn't he who did the outside also do the inside?
But give mercy to the things that are within and, behold, all things will be clean for you.
"Woe to you Pharisees! Because they tithe mint, rue and all vegetables but they overlook the judgment and love of God. It is necessary to do these things without overlooking them.
"Woe to you Pharisees! Because you love the first seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the squares.
"Woe to you! Because they are like hidden graves, and the men who walk above do not know it.
One of the teachers of the law answered and said: "Master, when you say this you also offend us."
And he said to him: "Woe to you too, teachers of the law! Because they impose on men burdens that they cannot carry but you yourself do not touch them even with one of your fingers.
"Woe to you! Because they build the tombs of the prophets, but their parents killed them.
With this, you are witnesses and consent to the actions of your parents because, in truth, they killed them, but you build your graves.
For this reason, the wisdom of God also said: "I will send you prophets and apostles; and of them, they will kill some and persecute others";
that the blood of all the prophets that has been shed since the foundation of the world may be demanded of this generation;
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zacharias who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes! I tell you that their blood will be demanded of this generation.
"Woe to you, teachers of the law! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You yourselves did not enter, and those who entered have been prevented.
When he got out of there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to put a lot of pressure on him and provoke him to talk about many things,
stalking him to catch something from his mouth.