Jesus having entered Jericho, was passing through the city.
And a man named Zacchaeus, who was head of the tax collectors and was wealthy,
I was trying to see who Jesus was; but he could not because of the crowd, since he was small in stature.
And running ahead, he got on a sycamore to see him, because Jesus was about to pass by.
When Jesus arrived at the place, he looked up and said: Zacchaeus, hurry up and come down, because today I must stay at your house.
Then he hastened to descend and received him with joy.
And when they saw this, they all murmured, saying: He has gone to stay with a sinful man.
And Zacchaeus, standing up, said to the Lord: Behold, Lord, I will give half of my goods to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone, I will give it back fourfold.
And Jesus said to him: Today salvation has come to this house, since he is also the son of Abraham;
because the Son of Man has come to seek and save what was lost.
As they were hearing these things, Jesus continued, saying a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and they thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear from one moment to another.
So he said: A certain man of noble family went to a far country to receive a kingdom for himself and then return.
And calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas and said, "Negotiate with this until I return."
But his citizens hated him, and they sent a delegation after him, saying, "We don't want this one to reign over us."
And it came to pass that when he returned, after having received the kingdom, he sent for his servants to whom he had given the money, to find out what they had gained by negotiating.
And the first one appeared, saying: "Sir, your mine has produced ten more mines."
And he said to him, "Well done, good servant, since you have been faithful in very little, have authority over ten cities."
Then the second came, saying, "Your mine, sir, has produced five mines."
And he also said to this: "And you are going to be over five cities."
And another came, saying: "Lord, here is your mine, which I have kept in a handkerchief;
because I was afraid of you, because you are a demanding man, who collect what you did not deposit and harvest what you did not sow. "
He replied *: "Useless servant, by your own words I am going to judge you. Did you know that I am a demanding man, that I collect what I did not deposit and I reap what I did not sow?
So why didn't you put my money in the bank, and when I came back, I would have received it with the interest? "
And he said to those who were present: "Take the mine away from him and give it to him who has the ten mines."
And they said to him: "Sir, he already has ten mines."
I tell you that to anyone who has, more will be given, but whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken away.
But these my enemies, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and kill them before me.
Having said this, he went ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount called of Olives, he sent two of the disciples,
saying: Go to the village opposite, in which, upon entering, you will find a tied colt on which no one has ever ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone asks you: "Why do you untie him?", In this way you will speak: "Because the Lord needs it."
Then the envoys went and found Him as He had told them.
While they untied the colt, their owners said to them: Why do you untie the colt?
And they answered: Because the Lord needs it.
And they brought him to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they put Jesus on him.
And as He advanced, they spread their cloaks on the road.
As he was approaching, next to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a loud voice for all the wonders they had seen,
saying: BLESSED THE KING THAT COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
Then some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him: Master, rebuke your disciples.
He answered and said: I tell you that if they remain silent, the stones will cry out.
When he got closer, when he saw the city, he cried over it,
saying: If you had also known on this day what leads to peace! But now it is hidden from your eyes.
For days will come upon you, when your enemies will throw down an embankment before you, besiege and harass you everywhere.
And they will bring you down to the ground, and your children within you, and they will not leave you stone on stone, because you did not know the time of your visitation.
And entering the temple, he began to cast out those who sold,
saying to them: It is written: "AND MY HOUSE WILL BE A HOUSE OF PRAYER", but you have made it CAVE OF THIEVES.
And he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests, the scribes, and the most prominent of the people tried to kill him;
and they could not find a way to do it, because all the people were waiting for Him, listening to Him.