Since many have tried to put in order a story about the things that have been very true between us,
just as they were transmitted to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word,
It seemed good to me too, after having diligently investigated everything from the beginning, writing them in order, oh most excellent Theophilus,
so that you know well the truth of the things in which you have been instructed.
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zacharias, from the class of Abijah. His wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
Both were righteous before God, and lived blamelessly in all the Lord's commandments and ordinances.
They had no children, because Elizabeth was sterile and they were both elderly.
It happened that when Zacharias exercised the priesthood before God, in the turn of his class,
According to the custom of the priesthood, he had to enter the Lord's temple by lot to burn the incense.
The entire crowd of the people was outside, praying, at the incense hour.
Then the angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense.
Zacharias was troubled when he saw him, and fear seized him.
But the angel said to him: "Do not be afraid, Zacharias! Because your prayer has been answered. Your wife Elizabeth will give birth to a son and you will call her name John.
You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth
because he will be great before the Lord. He will never drink wine or liquor, and will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb.
And it will cause many of the children of Israel to return to the Lord their God.
He himself will go before the Lord with the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the prudence of the righteous, to prepare the Lord a discerning people.
And Zacharias said to the angel, "How can I be sure of this?" Well, I'm old and my wife is elderly.
The angel answered and said: —I am Gabriel, who is before God, and I have been sent to speak to you and announce this good news.
Behold, you will be speechless and unable to speak until the day this is done, because you have not believed my words which will be fulfilled in due time.
The people were waiting for Zacharias, and they were surprised that he spent so much time in the temple.
When he came out, he couldn't speak to them; and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. He communicated with them by signs because he had been speechless.
It happened that, when the days of this ministry were fulfilled, he went home.
And after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived and secluded herself for five months saying:
"Thus has the Lord done to me in the days when he deigned to look at me to remove my affront among men."
In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth,
a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, from the house of David. The virgin's name was Maria.
When he entered where she was, he said: "I greet you, very favored!" The Lord is with you.
But she was troubled by his words and wondered what kind of greeting this would be.
Then the angel said to her: "Do not fear, Mary, because you have found favor with God!
Behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus.
This will be great, and will be called Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David.
He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and from his kingdom there will be no end.
Then Mary said to the angel, "What will this be like?" Because I don't know a man.
The angel answered and said to him: —The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will cover you with his shadow; therefore also the holy Being that will be born will be called Son of God.
Behold, your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a child in her old age. This is the sixth month for her who was called sterile.
Because nothing will be impossible for God.
Then Mary said: —Here is the servant of the Lord; be done to me according to your word. And the angel left her.
In those days Mary got up and went quickly to a city in the mountainous region of Judah.
He entered Zacarías's house and greeted Elisabet.
It happened that, when Elizabeth heard Maria's greeting, the creature leaped into her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,
and she cried out with a loud voice and said: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Where is this granted to me, that the mother of my Lord come to me?
Because behold, when the voice of your greeting reached my ears, the creature leaped for joy in my belly.
Blessed is she who believed, because what has been said to her from the Lord will be fulfilled.
And Mary said: —Grade my soul to the Lord;
and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior,
because he has looked at the lowliness of his servant. Behold, from now on all generations will consider me blessed,
because the Mighty One has done great things with me. His name is holy,
and his mercy is from generation to generation to those who fear him.
He did feats with his arm; scattered the proud in the thought of their hearts.
He removed the mighty from their thrones and raised the humble.
He fed the hungry with goods and the rich dismissed them empty.
He helped Israel, his servant, to remember mercy,
just as he spoke to our parents; Abraham and his descendants forever.
And Maria stayed with her for about three months, and returned home.
The time of her birth was fulfilled for Elizabeth, and she gave birth to a son.
Neighbors and relatives heard that God had magnified his mercy toward her and rejoiced with her.
On the eighth day they came to circumcise the boy, and they called him by the name of his father, Zacharias.
And his mother answering said: "No! Rather he will be called John.
And they said to him, "There is no one in your family who is called by this name."
They were asking their father what he wanted to call him.
And, asking for a tablet, he wrote saying: "Juan is his name". And everyone was amazed.
Instantly his mouth was opened, and his tongue was released and he began to speak blessing God.
Fear fell upon all his neighbors, and all these things spread throughout the mountainous region of Judah.
And all who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, "Well, who will this child be?" For surely the hand of the Lord was with him.
Zacharias, his father, was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied saying:
—Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has visited and redeemed his people.
He has raised up for us a mighty Savior in the house of his servant David,
just as he spoke through the mouth of his holy prophets that were from ancient times:
Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us,
to show mercy to our parents and to remember their holy covenant.
This is the oath that you swore to Abraham our father, to grant us that,
once rescued from the hands of the enemies, let us serve him without fear,
in holiness and justice before him all our days.
And you, child, will be called a prophet of the Most High because you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways;
to give his people knowledge of salvation in the forgiveness of their sins
because of the tender mercy of our God, with which the light of dawn will visit us from above;
to give light to those who dwell in darkness and in the shadow of death; to direct our feet on paths of peace.
And the boy grew and was strengthened in spirit, and was in the wilderness until the day of his manifestation to Israel.