In this, an innumerable crowd had gathered, so many that they ran over each other. Jesus began to say first to his disciples: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy,
because there is nothing hidden that is not to be discovered; nor hidden, that it should not be known.
Therefore what you have said in the dark will be heard in the light; and what you have spoken in the ear in the chambers will be proclaimed from the rooftops.
But I say to you, my friends: Do not fear those who kill the body, but afterwards they can do nothing else.
But I will teach you whom you must fear: Fear him who, after having taken his life, has the power to cast hell; yes, I say to you: to this fear.
Are not five sparrows sold for two white ones? For not one of them is forgotten before God.
And even the hairs on your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are of more value than many sparrows.
And I say to you that whoever confesses me before men, the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God;
But whoever denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
And when they take you to the synagogues, and to the magistrates and to the authorities, don't worry about how or what you will have to answer, or what you will have to say,
because the Holy Spirit will teach you at the same time what you must say.
And one of the crowd said to him, Master, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But he said to him, Man, who has made me a judge or a divider over you?
And he said to them: Look, and beware of all greed, because the life of man does not consist in the abundance of the goods that he possesses.
And he told them a parable, saying: The lands of a rich man had produced much;
And he thought within himself, saying: What will I do, because I have nowhere to keep my fruits?
And he said: This will I do: I will tear down my storehouses and build greater ones, and there I will keep all my fruits and my goods;
and I will say to my soul: Soul, you have many assets stored for many years; rest, eat, drink, have fun.
But God said to him: Fool, tonight they are going to ask for your soul; and what have you kept, whose will it be?
So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.
And he said to his disciples: Therefore I say to you: Do not worry about your life, what you will eat; nor for the body, what will you wear.
Life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Consider the crows, which neither sow nor reap; they have no warehouse or storehouse, and God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than the birds!
And who among you will be able to add a cubit to your height?
Well, if you cannot do even what is least, why do you worry about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow; they neither work nor spin; But I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory dressed like one of them.
And if that is how God dresses the grass, which is in the field today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more you, you of little faith?
Therefore do not worry about what you will eat, what you will drink, or be anxiously concerned.
Because all these things are sought by the people of the world, but your Father knows that you need these things.
But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you.
Fear not, little flock, for the Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom.
Sell ​​what you have and give alms; Make yourselves bags that do not grow old, treasure in the heavens that never runs out, where thief does not arrive or moth corrupts.
Because where your treasure is, there will also be your heart.
Let your loins be girded and your lamps lit;
And be like men who wait for their master to return from weddings, so that when he comes and calls, they will immediately open him.
Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when he comes, find watching; I tell you the truth, he will gird himself and make them sit at the table, and he will serve them.
And even if I come to the second watch, and even if I come to the third watch, and I will find them so, blessed are those servants.
But know this, that if the father of the family knew what time the thief would come, he would certainly watch and would not allow his house to be looted.
So be prepared, too, for at the hour you do not think the Son of Man will come.
Then Peter said to him, Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to all of us?
And the Lord said: Who is the faithful and prudent steward whom the Lord will put over his house so that in time he may give them their ration?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly I tell you, he will put you on all his possessions.
But if that servant says in his heart: My lord is late to come, and he begins to beat the servants and the maids, and to eat and to drink and to get drunk,
The lord of that servant will come on the day when he does not wait and at the hour when he does not know, and he will punish him and put his part with the unbelievers.
For that servant who knew the will of his master and did not prepare himself or did according to his will receive many lashes.
But he who did not know it, and did things worthy of scourging, will be whipped little, because everyone who has been given much, much will be demanded of him; And from the one who has been entrusted with much, more will be asked.
I have come to bring fire to the earth; And what do I want, if it's already on!
But from a baptism I have to be baptized; And how I am distressed until it is fulfilled!
Do you think I have come to earth to give peace? I tell you: no, but dissent.
Because from now on, five in a house will be divided, three against two, and two against three.
The father will be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And he also said to the people: When you see a cloud coming out of the west, you immediately say: Rain is coming; and so it happens.
And when the south wind blows, you say: It will be hot; and it does.
You hypocrites! You know how to distinguish the aspect of heaven and earth, and how can you not distinguish this time?
And why don't you judge for yourself what is fair?
For when you go to the magistrate with your adversary, try to settle with him along the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the bailiff, and the bailiff put you in jail.
I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid the last piece of white.