After finishing all his words to the people who listened to him, Jesus entered Capernaum.
And the servant of a certain centurion, whom he held in high esteem, was ill and about to die.
When he heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him to ask him to go and heal his servant.
They went to Jesus and begged him insistently, saying: —He is worthy of your granting this.
because he loves our nation and he himself built us the synagogue.
Jesus went with them. And when they were not very far from his house, the centurion sent him some friends to say: "Sir, don't bother, because I'm not worthy of you entering under my roof."
So I did not consider myself worthy of going to you. Rather, say the word and my servant will be healed.
Because I am also a man placed under authority and I have soldiers under my command. And I say to this: "Go", and he goes; I say to the other: "Come", and he comes; and I say to my servant, "Do this," and he does it.
When Jesus heard this, he marveled at him and, turning around, said to the people who were following him, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found so much faith!"
When those who had been sent returned home, they found the servant healthy.
It happened that, shortly after, he went to the city called Nain. His disciples and a large crowd accompanied him.
When he arrived near the city gate, behold, they led to the burial of a dead man, the only son of his mother, who was a widow. Quite a few city people accompanied her.
And when the Lord saw her, he took pity on her and said, "Don't cry."
Then he reached out and touched the coffin, and those carrying it stopped. Then he said to him: "Young man, I say to you: Get up!"
Then the one who had died sat down and began to speak. And Jesus gave him to his mother.
Fear seized everyone, and they glorified God saying: —A great prophet has risen among us! God has visited his people!
And what was said about him spread throughout Judea and throughout the surrounding land.
John was informed by his disciples about all these things. So John called two of his disciples
and he sent them to the Lord to ask him: "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we wait for someone else?"
When the men came to Jesus, they said to him: —John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying: "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we wait for another?"
In that hour Jesus healed many from diseases, plagues, and evil spirits; and he gave sight to many blind men.
And answering, he said to them: "Go and let John know what you have seen and heard: The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are made clean, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the gospel is announced to the poor .
Blessed is he who takes no offense at me.
When John's messengers left, Jesus began to speak of John to the crowds: "What did you go out to see in the desert?" A reed shaken by the wind?
So what did you go out to see? A man dressed in delicate clothing? Behold, those who wear luxurious clothes and live in pleasures are in the royal palaces.
So what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet!
This is the one of whom it is written: Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.
I tell you that among those born of women there is none greater than Juan. However, the smallest in the kingdom of God is greater than him.
Hearing him, all the people and the publicans justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the interpreters of the law rejected God's purpose for them, not being baptized by him.
"To what then shall I compare the men of this generation?" What are they like?
They are similar to the boys who sit in the plaza and shout at each other saying: "We played the flute and they didn't dance; we sang mourning songs and they didn't cry."
Because John the Baptist has come, who does not eat bread or drink wine, and they say: "He has a devil!"
The Son of Man who eats and drinks has come, and they say: "Here is a gluttonous man and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners!"
But wisdom is justified by all her children.
One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him; and when he entered the house of the Pharisee he sat down at the table.
And behold, when she learned that Jesus was at the table in the Pharisee's house, a woman who was a sinner in the city brought an alabaster bottle with perfume.
And standing behind Jesus, at his feet, crying, she began to wet his feet with her tears and dried them with the hairs of his head. And he kissed her feet and anointed them with perfume.
Seeing this, the Pharisee who had invited him to eat said to himself, "If this were a prophet, he would know who and what kind of woman is touching him, because she is a sinner."
Then Jesus answered him and said, "Simon, I have something to tell you. He said: "Say, Master.
—A certain creditor had two debtors: one owed him five hundred coins, and the other only fifty coins.
Since they had nothing to pay, he forgave them both. So which of these will you love the most?
Simon answered and said, "I suppose the one he forgave the most." And he said to him, "You have judged correctly."
And turning to the woman, he said to Simon, "Do you see this woman?" I entered your house and you did not give me water for my feet; but it has wet my feet with tears and dried them with its hair.
You did not kiss me, but since I entered, she has not stopped kissing my feet.
You did not anoint my head with oil, but it has anointed my feet with perfume.
Therefore I tell you that his many sins are forgiven since he loved very much. But the one who is forgiven little, loves little.
And to her he said, "Your sins are forgiven."
Those who were with him at the table began to say to each other: "Who is this who even forgives sins?"
Then Jesus said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you; go in peace