In the fifteenth year of the government of Tiberius Caesar, being Pontius Pilate the procurator of Judea, Herod the tetrarch of Galilee, his brother Philip the tetrarch of the Iturea and Traconite regions, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilinia;
In the time of the high priests Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zacharias in the desert.
So he walked all over the region around the Jordan preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins,
as it is written in the book of the words of the prophet Isaiah, which says: Voice of the one who proclaims in the desert: "Prepare the way of the Lord; straighten your paths.
Every valley will be filled, and every mountain and hill will be lowered. Crooked trails will be straightened out; and the rough roads, smoothed;
and all flesh will see the salvation of God. "
Juan, then, said to the multitudes that were leaving to be baptized by him: —Generation of vipers! Who taught them to flee from the wrath to come?
So bear fruit worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, "We have Abraham for our father." Because I tell you that even from these stones God can raise children to Abraham.
Also, the ax is already placed at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
The crowds asked him saying, "Well, what shall we do?"
Responding, he said to them: "He who has two robes give to him who does not have, and he who has food do the same.
There were also some publicans to be baptized and they asked him: —Master, what shall we do?
He said to them: "Do not charge more than what is ordered."
Soldiers also asked him, "What about us, what shall we do?" He said to them, "Do not extort or falsely denounce anyone, and be content with your wages."
As the people were waiting, and everyone speculated in their hearts if John would be the Christ,
Juan responded to all saying: —I, indeed, baptized them in water. But comes the one who is more powerful than me, from whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his footwear. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire.
His winnower is in his hand to clean his threshing floor and gather the wheat in his barn, but he will burn the chaff in the fire that will never be quenched.
So, exhorting with these and many other things, he announced the good news to the people.
But the tetrarch Herod, when he was rebuked by John regarding Herodia, his brother's wife, and of all the evils that Herod had done,
He also added to all this: He locked John in prison.
It happened that, at the time when all the people were baptized, Jesus was also baptized. And as I prayed the sky was opened
and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove. Then came a voice from heaven: "You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased."
At the beginning of his ministry, Jesus was about thirty years old. He was (believed to be) the son of Joseph,
the son of Eli, the son of Matat, the son of Levi, the son of Melqui, the son of Jana, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli,
the son of Nagai, the son of Maat, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semei, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah,
son of Joanán, son of Resa, son of Zerubbabel, son of Salatiel,
son of Neri, son of Melqui, son of Adi, son of Cosam, son of Elmodam, son of Er,
the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matat,
the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of Eliakim,
son of Melea, son of Mainán, son of Matata, son of Natán,
the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salah, the son of Nakhson,
the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hesron, the son of Pharaoh, the son of Judah,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah,
the son of Nacor, the son of Serug, the son of Ragau, the son of Peleg, the son of Heber, the son of Selach,
the son of Cainan, the son of Arfaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah,
son of Lamech, son of Methuselah, son of Enoch, son of Jared, son of Mahalaleel, son of Cainan,
son of Enos, son of Seth, son of Adam, son of God.