And it came to pass that while Jesus was praying in a certain place, when he had finished, one of his disciples said to him: Lord, teach us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.
And He said to them: When you pray, say: "Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
Give us today our daily bread.
And forgive us our sins, because we also forgive all those who owe us. And don't tempt us. "
He also said to them: Suppose one of you has a friend, and he goes to him at midnight and says: "Friend, lend me three loaves,
because a friend of mine has come to my house on a trip, and I have nothing to offer him ";
and he, answering from the inside, says: "Don't disturb me; the door is already closed, and my children and I are in bed; I can't get up to give you anything."
I tell you that although he does not get up to give you something because he is his friend, nevertheless, due to his importunity he will get up and give you whatever he needs.
And I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Because everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to the caller it will be opened.
Or suppose that one of you who is a father asks his son for bread; Will he give you a stone? Or if he asks for a fish; Will he give him a snake instead of the fish?
Or if you ask for an egg; Will he give you a scorpion?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?
Jesus was casting out a demon, which was mute, and it happened that when the demon came out, the mute spoke; and the crowds were amazed.
But some of them said: He casts out demons by Beelzebub, prince of demons.
Still others, to test Him, demanded of Him a sign from heaven.
But when He knew their thoughts, He said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated; and a house divided against itself collapses.
And if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom remain standing? Because you say that I cast out demons for Beelzebú.
And if I cast out demons for Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be your judges.
But if by the finger of God I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come to you.
When a strong, well-armed man guards his palace, his assets are safe.
But when someone stronger than he attacks him and defeats him, he takes away all his weapons he had trusted and distributes his loot.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
When the unclean spirit leaves man, it goes through arid places looking for rest; and when he could not find it, he says: "I will return to my house where I came from."
And when he arrives, he finds it swept and groomed.
So he goes and takes with him seven other spirits worse than him, and entering, they dwell there; and the final state of that man is worse than the first.
And it happened that while saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said: Blessed is the womb that conceived you and the breasts that raised you!
But He said: On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
As the crowd gathered, he began to say: This generation is a wicked generation; Look for a sign, and no sign will be given to you but the sign of Jonah.
For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so too will the Son of Man be for this generation.
The Queen of the South will rise up in judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and look, something bigger than Solomon is here.
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and look, something bigger than Jonah is here.
Nobody, when he lights a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a bushel, but on the candlestick, so that those who enter see the light.
The lamp of your body is your eye; when your eye is healthy, your whole body is also full of light; but when it is bad, your body is also full of darkness.
See, then, that the light in you is not darkness.
So if your whole body is full of light, with no part in darkness, it will be fully illuminated as when the lamp shines on you with its rays.
When he finished speaking, a Pharisee * asked him to eat with him; and Jesus went in and sat at the table.
When the Pharisee saw this, he was surprised that Jesus had not washed himself first before eating, according to the Jewish ritual.
But the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the glass and the plate; but inside you are full of theft and evil.
Fools, whoever did the outside did not also do the inside?
Give instead what is within as a charity, and then everything will be clean for you.
But woe to you Pharisees, because you pay the tithe for mint and rue and all kinds of vegetables, and yet you overlook the justice and love of God; but this is what you should have practiced without neglecting the other.
Woe to you Pharisees! Because you love the first seats in the synagogues and the respectful greetings in the squares.
Woe to you !, because you are like graves that are not seen, on which men walk without knowing it.
One of the interpreters of the law answered and said to him: "Master, when you say this, you also insult us.
And He said: Woe to you also, interpreters of the law, because you burden men with burdens difficult to bear, and you do not even touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Woe to you !, because you build the tombs of the prophets, and it was your parents who killed them.
So you are witnesses, and you approve of the actions of your parents; because they killed them and you build their graves.
That is why the wisdom of God also said: "I will send you prophets and apostles, and of them, they will kill some and persecute others,
so that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, be charged to this generation,
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zacharias, who perished between the altar and the house of God; yes, I tell you that it will be charged to this generation. "
Woe to you, interpreters of the law, because you have taken away the key of knowledge; You yourselves did not enter, and you prevented those who were entering.
When he got out of there, the scribes and Pharisees began to harass him greatly, and to interrogate him thoroughly about many things,
plotting against him to catch him in something he said.