Gathering the twelve together, he gave them power and authority over all demons and to heal diseases.
He sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And he said to them: "Take nothing for the journey: neither stick nor bag nor bread nor money; nor have two robes.
In whatever house you enter, stay there and leave there.
And wherever you do not receive them, as you leave that city shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.
And leaving, they passed from village to village announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
The tetrarch Herod heard of everything that was happening and was perplexed because some said that John had risen from the dead.
Others said that Elijah had appeared, and others that one of the ancient prophets had risen.
But Herod said, "I beheaded John. Who then is this man from whom I hear such things?" And I tried to see him.
When the apostles returned, they told Jesus everything they had done. And he took them with him and withdrew to the city called Bethsaida.
But, upon learning it, the crowds followed him; and he received them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God and healed those who needed to be healed.
The day began to decline, and the twelve approached him and said, "Say good-bye to the people to go to the surrounding villages and fields, and stay and find food because here we are in a desert place."
He said to them, "Give them something to eat." But they said, "We don't have more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for this whole town."
Because they were like five thousand men. Then he said to his disciples, "Have them sit in groups of about fifty each."
And so they did, making everyone sit down.
Then Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, blessed them. Then he broke them and gave his disciples to put them in front of the people.
They all ate and were filled, and from what was left they collected twelve baskets of pieces.
It happened that, while he was praying apart, his disciples were with him, and he asked them saying: —Who do people say that I am?
They answered and said: —One, that John the Baptist; others that Elías; and others, that one of the ancient prophets has risen.
And he said to them: "And who do you say that I am?" Then Peter, answering, said: —The Christ of God.
But he strongly commanded them not to say this to anyone.
And he said to them: —It is necessary that the Son of Man suffer many things and that he be rejected by the elders, by the chief priests and by the scribes, and that he be killed and rise again on the third day.
Then he said to everyone: —If anyone wants to come after me, deny yourself, take up your cross every day and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Well, what use is it to man if he wins the whole world and destroys or loses himself?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of this the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his glory and that of the Father and that of the holy angels.
And I tell you the truth, there are some of those here who will not taste death until they have seen the kingdom of God.
About eight days after these words, it happened that he took Peter, John, and James with him, and went up the mountain to pray.
And as he prayed, the appearance of his face became different and his clothing became white and glowing.
And behold, two men were talking to him. It was Moses and Elijah,
who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure that he was going to fulfill in Jerusalem.
Peter and the others with him were heavy with sleep; but they kept watch and saw his glory and two men who were with him.
It happened that, while those were moving away from him, Peter said to Jesus, without knowing what he was saying: "Master, it is good for us to be here." So let's raise three branches: one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
While he was saying this, a cloud came and shadowed them. And they were afraid when they entered the cloud.
Then a voice came out of the cloud saying: "This is my Son, the Chosen One. Listen to him."
When the voice ceased, Jesus was found alone. And they were silent, and in those days they did not tell anyone anything they had seen.
The next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a large crowd met him.
And behold, a man from the crowd cried out saying: "Master, I beg you to see my son, who is the only one I have."
Behold, a spirit takes it, and suddenly cries out and convulses it with foam; it rips him apart and hardly turns away from him.
I begged your disciples to cast him out but they could not.
Jesus answered and said: "O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long will I be with you and bear you? Bring your son here.
And while he was still approaching, the demon knocked him down and convulsed him. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy, and delivered him to his father.
And everyone marveled at the greatness of God. As everyone was amazed at all the things he did, he said to his disciples:
"Put these words in your ears, because the Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men."
But they did not understand this saying, because it was hidden from them so that they would not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
Then there was a discussion among the disciples: which of them would be the most important.
But Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side.
and he said to them, "Whoever receives this child in my name receives me; and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me. Because the one who is the smallest among you all, this is the most important.
Then Juan answered and said: —Master, we saw a certain man casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him because he is not with us.
Jesus said to him, "Do not forbid it. For he who is not against you is for you.
It came to pass that, when the time was to come when he was to be received above, he made his face to go to Jerusalem.
He sent messengers before him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him,
but they did not receive him because they saw in his face that he was going to Jerusalem.
Seeing this, his disciples James and John said to him, "Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?"
He turned around and rebuked them,
and they went to another village.
While they were on the road, a certain man said to him, "I will follow you wherever you go!"
Jesus said to him: —The foxes have caves and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
He said to another, "Follow me." But he said, "Sir, let me go first to bury my father."
And Jesus said to him, "Let the dead bury their dead; but you go and announce the kingdom of God!
Then another said to him, "I will follow you, Lord, but first allow me to say goodbye to those who are in my house."
But Jesus said to him, "No one who has put his hand to the plow and keeps looking back is fit for the kingdom of God."
