And on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they went to the tomb carrying the aromatic spices they had prepared.
And they found the stone removed from the grave;
but when they entered they did not find the body of Jesus.
It happened that, being perplexed by this, behold, two men in resplendent garments stood beside them.
As they were afraid of them and lowered their faces to the ground, they said to them: —Why do you look for the living among the dead?
Not here; rather, he is risen. Remember what he told you when he was still in Galilee,
as he said: "It is necessary that the Son of Man be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and that he be crucified and rise again on the third day."
So they remembered his words
and, returning from the grave, they announced all these things to the eleven and to all the others.
Those who said these things to the apostles were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary mother of James, and the other women who were with them.
But his words seemed crazy to them, and they did not believe them.
However, Peter got up and ran to the grave. When he looked inside, he saw the canvases alone and went home amazed at what had happened.
Behold, on the same day, two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, which was about eleven kilometers from Jerusalem.
They were talking to each other about all those things that had happened.
It happened that, while they were conversing and arguing with each other, Jesus himself came and went with them.
But their eyes were blurred, so they didn't recognize him.
Then he said to them, "What are these things that you discuss among yourselves as you walk?" They stopped with a sad face.
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said to him: —Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened in these days?
Then he said, "What things?" And they said: —Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet man, powerful in works and in word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our leaders handed him over to be sentenced to death, and how they crucified him.
We hoped that he would be the one to redeem Israel. Now, to all this is added the fact that today is the third day since this happened.
In addition, some of our women have amazed us: They went very early to the grave
and when they did not find his body, they returned saying that they had seen the vision of angels, who told them that he is alive.
Some of us went to the grave and found as the women had said, but they did not see him.
Then he said to them, "O foolish and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have said!
Was it not necessary that the Christ suffer these things and enter into his glory?
And beginning from Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted in all the Scriptures what they said about him.
Thus they came to the village where they were going, and he pretended to be further on.
But they insisted, saying, "Stay with us, because it is late and the day has already declined." So he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he was sitting with them at the table, he took the bread, blessed it, and gave it to them.
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him. But he disappeared from sight.
And they said to each other: —Didn't our hearts burn within us when he spoke to us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?
In the same hour they got up and went back to Jerusalem. They found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together,
who said, "Truly the Lord is risen and has appeared to Simon!"
Then they recounted the things that had happened to them on the road, and how it had become known to them as they broke the bread.
As they spoke these things, Jesus stood in their midst and said to them: "Peace to you!
Then they, terrified and amazed, thought they saw a spirit.
But he said to them, "Why are you troubled, and why do such thoughts rise to your hearts?"
Look at my hands and my feet, for I am myself. Feel and see, for a spirit does not have flesh or bones as you see that I have.
Saying this, he showed them his hands and feet.
And since they still did not believe it because of the joy they had and because they were amazed, he said to them: "Do you have something to eat here?"
Then they gave him a piece of roasted fish.
He took it and ate in front of them.
And he said to them, "These are the words that I spoke to you while still with you: that it was necessary for all these things that are written about me in the Law of Moses, in the Prophets and in the Psalms to be fulfilled.
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
And he said to them: "Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead on the third day;
and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name in all nations beginning from Jerusalem.
And you are witnesses of these things.
Behold, I will send the fulfillment of my Father's promise to you. But you stay in the city until you are invested with the power from on high.
So he led them out to Bethany and, raising his hands, blessed them.
It happened that when he blessed them, he left them and was taken up to heaven.
After worshiping him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy
and they were continually in the temple, blessing God.