And Jesus said to his disciples: It is impossible that no stumbling blocks come; but woe to him through whom they come!
It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than to trip one of these little ones.
Look for yourselves; if your brother sins against you, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
And if seven times a day he sins against you, and seven times a day he returns to you, saying: I repent, forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord: Increase our faith.
Then the Lord said: If you had faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this sycamore: Root yourself and be planted in the sea; and I would obey you.
And who among you, who has a servant who plows or grazes, when he returns from the field, immediately says to him: Come in, sit at the table?
Does he not rather say to him: Prepare dinner for me, and gird yourself and serve me until I have eaten and drunk; and after that, do you eat and drink?
Do you thank the servant because he did what he was told to do? I think no.
Likewise you, when you have done everything that has been commanded you, say: We are useless servants, because we only did what we should do.
And it came to pass that when Jesus went to Jerusalem, he passed between Samaria and Galilee.
And upon entering a village, ten leprous men met him, who stood afar off
And they raised their voices, saying: Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
And when he saw them, he said to them: Go, show yourselves to the priests. And it happened that as they were going they were cleaned.
Then one of them, when he saw that he had been healed, returned glorifying God with a loud voice,
and fell down on his face at the feet of Jesus, giving him thanks; and this was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answering said: Are there not ten who were cleansed? And the nine, where are they?
Was there no one to return and give glory to God, but this stranger?
And he said to him: Get up, go away; Your faith has healed you.
And when the Pharisees asked him when the kingdom of God was to come, he answered them and said: The kingdom of God will not come with a warning,
Nor will they say: Behold here, or behold there, for behold, the kingdom of God is among you.
And he said to his disciples: The time will come when you will want to see one of the days of the Son of Man and you will not see it.
And they will tell you: Helo here or helo there. You do not go, you do not follow him.
Because as the lightning that illuminates the sky from one extreme to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
But first you need to suffer a lot and be rejected by this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of Man.
They ate, drank, married, and married, until the day Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Likewise, as it happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
But the day Lot left Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed everyone.
This will be the day when the Son of Man is revealed.
On that day, whoever is on the roof and has his goods at home, do not go down to take them; and he who is in the field, likewise shall not turn back.
Remember Lot's wife.
Everyone who tries to save his life will lose it; and whoever loses it will save it.
I tell you that on that night two will be in one bed, one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding together; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
And answering, they said to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there the eagles will also gather.