He also said to his disciples: "There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and this was accused before him as a wasteful of his property.
His lord called him and said: 'What is this I hear from you? Give an account of your stewardship because you can no longer be a steward. '
Then the butler said to himself, 'What shall I do? Because my lord takes the stewardship from me. Dig, I can't; begging, I'm ashamed.
I know what I will do so that when I am dismissed from the stewardship they will receive me in their homes! '
"Then he called each of his lord's debtors, and said to the first, 'How much do you owe to my lord?'
He said, 'One hundred barrels of oil.' And he said to him: 'Take your receipt, sit down and immediately write fifty.'
Then he said to another: 'And how much do you owe?' And he said to him: 'A hundred kilos of wheat.' He said to him, 'Take your receipt and write eighty.'
"And the Lord praised the unjust steward because he acted shrewdly, for the children of this world are in their generation more astute than the children of light.
"And I say to you: With the unjust riches, make friends, so that when they are lacking, they receive you in the eternal dwellings.
"He who is faithful in very little is also faithful in much, and he who is in very little is unjust is also unjust in much.
So, if with the unjust riches they were not faithful, who will entrust to them the true?
And if they were not faithful in others, who will give you what is yours?
No servant can serve two masters because he will hate the one and love the other, or he will dedicate himself to the one and despise the other. They cannot serve God and wealth. "
The Pharisees, who were greedy, heard all these things and made fun of him.
And he said to them: "You are the ones who justify yourselves before men. But God knows your heart; because what is sublime among men, before God is abomination.
"The Law and the Prophets went to John. Thereafter the good news of the kingdom of God is announced, and everyone strives to enter it.
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, for one tittle of the law to fall.
"Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And whoever marries a woman divorced by her husband commits adultery.
"A certain man was rich, dressed in purple and fine linen, and feasted splendidly every day.
And a certain poor man named Lazarus was lying at his door, full of sores,
and he wanted to be satisfied with what fell from the rich man's table. Even the dogs came and licked his sores.
"It happened that the poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried.
And in Hades, being in torments, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
Then he, crying out, said: 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and refresh my tongue because I am tormented in this flame.'
"And Abraham said: 'Son, remember that during your life you received your goods and, in the same way, Lazarus, evils. But now he is comforted here, and you are tormented.
In addition to all this, a great chasm exists between us and you so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, nor from there can cross here. '
"And he said, 'Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house
(for I have five brothers), so that I warn them not to come to this place of torment too. '
But Abraham said: 'They have Moses and the Prophets. Let them listen to them. '
Then he said: 'No, father Abraham. Rather, if anyone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. '
But Abraham said to him, 'If you do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, you will not be persuaded if anyone rises from the dead either.' "