All the publicans and sinners came to him to hear him,
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured saying, "This man receives sinners and eats with them."
Then he told them this parable, saying:
"What man among you, if he has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and goes after the one that has been lost until he finds it?"
And finding it, he puts it joyfully on his shoulders
And when he gets home, he gathers his friends and neighbors together and says, "Enjoy yourself because I have found my lost sheep."
I tell you that, in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven for a sinner who repents than for the ninety-nine righteous who do not need repentance.
"Or what woman who has ten coins, if she loses one, does not light a lamp, sweep the house and search hard until she finds it?
When she finds it, she gathers her friends and neighbors and tells them: "Enjoy yourself because I have found the coin that was lost."
I tell you, in the same way, there is joy before the angels of God over a sinner who repents.
He also said, "A man had two children."
The youngest of them said to his father, "Father, give me my share of the inheritance." And he distributed the goods to them.
Not many days later, having put everything together, the youngest son went to a distant region and there he wasted his property living riotously.
"When he had wasted everything, a great famine came in that region, and he began to be in need.
So he went and got close to one of the citizens of that region, who sent him to his field to feed the pigs.
And he wanted to be satisfied with the carob beans that the pigs ate, and nobody gave them.
Then returning to himself, he said: "How many day laborers in my father's house have an abundance of bread, and here I am starving!
I will get up, go to my father and say: 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your day laborers. '"
"He got up and went to his father. When he was still away, his father saw him and had compassion. He ran and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
The son said to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son."
But her father said to his servants, "Take out the best dress immediately and put it on, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet.
Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's eat and rejoice
because this my son was dead and has lived again; he was lost and has been found. "And they began to rejoice.
"His eldest son was in the field. When he came, he approached the house and heard the music and the dances.
After calling one of the servants, he asked him what it was.
The latter said to him: "Your brother has come, and your father has ordered the fattened calf to be killed for having received it safely."
So he got mad and didn't want to go inside. "So his father came out and begged him to come in.
But answering he said to his father: "Behold, I have served you for so many years and I have never disobeyed your commandment, and you have never given me a kid to rejoice with my friends.
But when this your son came who has consumed your goods with prostitutes, you have killed for him the fattened calf ".
Then his father said to him: "Son, you are always with me and all my things are yours.
But it was necessary to rejoice and rejoice because this your brother was dead and has lived again; he was lost and has been found. "