And it came to pass afterward, that Jesus walked all the cities and villages, preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God, and the twelve with him,
and some women who had been healed of evil spirits and diseases: Mary, whose name was Magdalena, from whom seven demons had come out,
and Juana, Chuza's wife, Herod's steward, and Susana and many others who helped him with his goods.
And when a great crowd was gathered, and those who came from each city to him, he said to them in a parable:
A sower went out to sow his seed; and while sowing, a part fell along the road and was trampled; and the birds of the sky ate it.
And another part fell among the stones; and once it sprouted, it dried, because it had no moisture.
And another part fell among thorns, and the thorns that sprouted together drowned it.
And another part fell into good soil and, when it sprouted, it bore fruit one hundred by one. Speaking these things, he said with a loud voice: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
And his disciples asked him what this parable meant.
And he said: It is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God; but to the others, by parables, so that seeing they do not see and hearing they do not understand.
This then is the parable: The seed is the word of God.
And those by the road are those who hear; but then the devil comes and takes the word from his heart, so that they do not believe and be saved.
And those among the stones are those who, having heard, receive the word with joy, but have no roots; for a time they believe, but in the time of temptation they depart.
And the one that fell among the thorns are those who heard, but then they continue on their way and are drowned by the cares, and by the riches and pleasures of this life, and they do not bear fruit.
But those who fell on good ground are those who with a good and upright heart retain the word heard, and bear fruit with patience.
No one who lights a candle covers it with a pot or puts it under the bed, but puts it in a candlestick, so that those who enter see the light.
Because there is nothing hidden that should not be manifested, nor anything hidden that should not be known and come to light.
Look, then, how you hear; for to everyone who has, it will be given; And from everyone who does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken from him.
And his mother and his brothers came to him; but they could not reach him because of the crowd.
And he was given notice, saying: Your mother and your brothers are out and want to see you.
He then, responding, said to them: My mother and my brothers are the ones who hear the word of God and do it.
And it came to pass one day that he entered a boat with his disciples and said to them: Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they left.
But while they were sailing, he fell asleep. And a windstorm broke out in the lake, and they were flooded and endangered.
And approaching him, they woke him up, saying: Master, Master, we are perishing! And waking up, he rebuked the wind and the waves; and they ceased, and there was a bonanza.
And he said to them: Where is your faith? And terrified, they marveled, saying to each other: Who is this, who still commands the winds and the water, and they obey him?
And they sailed to the land of the Gadarenes, which is on the opposite bank from Galilee.
And when he came ashore, a man from the city who had demons for a long time met him; and he did not wear clothes or live in a house, but among the graves.
Who, when he saw Jesus, exclaimed and fell down before him, and said with a loud voice: What have you got with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you not to torment me.
(Because he commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, because many times he had seized him; and they kept him prisoner with chains and shackles; but breaking the chains, he was impelled by the devil towards the deserts).
And Jesus asked him, saying: What name do you have? And he said: Legion. Because a lot of demons have entered him.
And they begged him not to send them to the abyss.
And there was a herd of many pigs grazing in the bush; and they begged him to let them in; and gave them permission.
Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs; and the herd was thrown into the lake by a cliff and drowned.
And those who were feeding them, when they saw what had happened, fled, and going, they gave notice in the city and through the fields.
And they went out to see what had happened; and they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone out sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen him told them how that demoniac had been healed.
Then all the multitude of the region around the Gadarenes asked him to leave them, because they were very afraid. And Jesus, getting into the boat, returned.
And that man, from whom the demons had come out, begged him to let him be with him; but Jesus dismissed him, saying:
Go back to your house and tell how great things God has done with you. And he went away, publishing throughout the city how great things Jesus had done with him.
And it came to pass that when Jesus returned, the people received him with joy, because they were all waiting for him.
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, who was head of the synagogue; And falling down at the feet of Jesus, he asked him to enter his house,
because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, who was dying. And as Jesus went, the crowd squeezed him.
And a woman who had suffered from blood flow for twelve years, and who had spent everything she had on doctors and who had not been cured by any of them,
He came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak; and instantly his blood flow ceased.
Then Jesus said: Who is it that has touched me? And all denying, Peter and those who were with him said: Master, the crowd squeezes and oppresses you, and you ask: Who is it that has touched me?
And Jesus said: Someone has touched me, because I have perceived that power has come from me.
Then, when the woman saw that she had not gone unnoticed, she came trembling and, prostrating herself before him, she told him in front of all the people why she had touched him and how she had been instantly healed.
And he said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace.
While he was still speaking, one of the synagogue principal's house came to tell him: Your daughter is dead; don't bother the Master anymore.
And when Jesus heard it, he answered him: Fear not; believe only, and she will be healed.
And entering the house, he did not let anyone enter with him, except Pedro, and Jacobo, and Juan, and the girl's father and mother.
And they all cried and wailed. And he said: Do not cry; It is not dead, but sleeps.
And they made fun of him, knowing he was dead.
But he, taking her by the hand, cried out, saying: Girl, get up!
Then her spirit returned, and she rose immediately; And he commanded that they give him food.
And her parents were stunned; but Jesus commanded them to tell no one what had happened.