Later, it happened that he walked from city to city and from village to village preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God. The twelve went with him,
and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and diseases: Mary, called Magdalena, from whom seven demons had come out;
Juana, the wife of Cuza, Herod's administrator; Susana, and many others. They served them with their goods.
Gathering a large crowd and those from each city who came to him, he spoke to them through a parable:
"A sower went out to sow his seed. As he sowed, a part fell by the roadside and was trampled underfoot; and the birds of the sky ate it.
Another part fell on the rock and, when it grew, it dried because it had no moisture.
Another part fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew at the same time and drowned it.
And another part fell into good soil and, when it grew, it bore fruit one hundredfold. "Speaking of these things, he exclaimed:" He who has ears to hear, let him hear. "
His disciples asked him what this parable meant.
And he said: "You have been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God; but to others in parables so that seeing you do not see, and hearing you do not understand.
"This then is the parable: The seed is the word of God.
Those next to the road are those who hear but then the devil comes and takes the word from their hearts so that they do not believe and be saved.
Those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy. But these have no root; for a time they believe and at the time of trial they depart.
As for the part that fell among the thorns, these are the ones who heard but, while they continue on their way, they are drowned by the worries, riches and pleasures of life, and they do not reach maturity.
But as for the part that fell on the good ground, these are the ones who, hearing with a good and upright heart, retain the word they have heard and bear fruit with perseverance.
"No one who lights a lamp covers it with a pot, or puts it under the bed, but puts it on a lampstand so that those who enter see the light.
Because there is nothing hidden that is not to be manifested or anything hidden that is not to be known and come out clearly.
"Look, then, how they hear; for whoever has will be given, and whoever does not have, even what they think they have will be taken from them."
His mother and brothers came to him, but were unable to reach him because of the crowd.
Then he was warned: "Your mother and your brothers are out looking forward to seeing you."
But he, answering, said to them: —My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. Jesus calms the storm
It happened in one of those days that he entered a boat, and also his disciples. And he said to them: "Let's go to the other shore of the lake." And they set sail.
But while they were sailing he fell asleep. Then a windstorm broke out in the lake, and they flooded and were in danger.
Approaching him, they woke him up saying: "Master, Master!" We perish! And waking up he rebuked the wind and the waves of the water; and they ceased and there was a bonanza.
Then he said to them, "Where's your faith?" Frightened, they marveled saying to each other: —Who is this who commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him? Jesus heals a demoniac
They sailed to the land of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.
When he got down to earth, a man from the city met him who had demons. For a long time he had not worn clothes, nor lived in a house but among the graves.
But when he saw Jesus, he exclaimed, fell down before him and said with a loud voice: "What have you got with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God?" I beg you not to torment me!
Because Jesus had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for he had long seized him. To save it, they bound him with chains and shackles but, breaking the ties, he was driven by the demon to the deserts.
Jesus asked him, saying, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion." Because a lot of demons have entered him;
and they begged him not to send them into the abyss.
There was a herd of many pigs that grazed on the mountain; and they begged him to let them in, and he gave them permission.
When the demons left the man, they entered the pigs; and the herd rushed down a cliff into the lake and drowned.
Those who fed the pigs, seeing what had happened, fled and gave notice in the city and through the fields.
And they went out to see what had happened. They went to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at the feet of Jesus, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
Those who had seen him told them how the demoniac had been saved.
Then all the multitude of the region of the Gadarenes asked him to separate from them because they were very afraid. Jesus got into the boat and returned.
The man the demons had come from begged her to let him be with him. But Jesus answered him saying:
—Go back to your house and tell how great things God has done for you. And he went on proclaiming throughout the city how great things Jesus had done for him. Jesus heals a woman
When Jesus returned, all the people received him joyfully because everyone expected him.
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, who was head of the synagogue. He fell at the feet of Jesus and implored him to go to his house
Because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, who was dying. As he went, crowds crowded him.
And a woman who had been bleeding for twelve years (who, although she had spent all her wealth on doctors, could not be healed by anyone),
He came up behind him and touched the edge of Jesus' cloak. His bleeding immediately stopped.
Then Jesus said, "Who is it that touched me?" And as everyone denied, Pedro said to him: —Master, the crowds squeeze and pressure you.
Jesus said: "Someone has touched me, because I know that power has come from me.
Then, when the woman saw that she had not gone unnoticed, she trembled and, prostrating herself before him, she declared before all the people why she had touched him and how she had been instantly healed.
He said to her, "Child, your faith has saved you." Go in peace. Jesus resurrects Jairus' daughter
While he was still speaking, one of the synagogue principal's house came to tell him: "Your daughter is dead." Don't bother Master anymore.
Hearing this, Jesus replied, "Do not be afraid; just believe, and she will be saved.
When he arrived at the house, he did not allow anyone to enter with him but only Pedro, Juan, Jacobo, and the girl's father and mother.
Everyone was crying and crying for her. But he said, "Don't cry." She is not dead but sleeps.
They mocked him, knowing that she had died.
But he took her by the hand and spoke with a loud voice saying, "Child, get up."
Then her spirit returned to her, and she instantly rose. And he ordered that they feed him.
His parents were stunned, and he ordered that no one tell what had happened.