And after Jesus finished all his words to the people who heard him, he entered Capernaum.
And the servant of a centurion, whom he held in high esteem, was ill and about to die.
And when he heard about Jesus, he sent some of the Jewish elders to him, asking him to come and heal his servant.
And they came near to Jesus, they begged him diligently, saying: It is worthy that you grant him this,
because he loves our nation, and he built us a synagogue.
And Jesus went with them. But when they were not very far from the house, the centurion sent some friends to him, saying: Lord, do not bother, because I am not worthy that you enter under my roof;
therefore, I did not even consider myself worthy of going to you; but say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Well, I too am a man placed under authority and I have soldiers under my command. And I say to this: Go, and go; and to the other: Come and come; and to my servant: Do this, and it does.
Hearing this, Jesus marveled at him, and turning, he said to the people who followed him, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found so much faith."
And when those who had been sent returned home, they found the servant who had been sick healthy.
And it came about after he went to the city called Nain, and many of his disciples and a large crowd were going with him.
And when he came near the gate of the city, behold, they brought out a deceased, the only begotten of his mother, who was a widow; and there were many people from the city with her.
And when the Lord saw her, he took pity on her and said: Don't cry.
And he came and touched the coffin; and those who carried it stopped. And he said: Young man, I tell you, get up!
Then the dead man sat up and began to speak. And Jesus gave it to his mother.
And they were all afraid and glorified God, saying: A great prophet has risen among us, and: God has visited his people.
And his fame spread throughout Judea and throughout the surrounding region.
And John's disciples gave him the news of all these things; and John called two of his disciples,
And he sent them to Jesus to ask him: Are you the one who was to come, or will we wait for someone else?
And when the men came to him, they said to him: John the Baptist has sent us to ask you: Are you the one who was to come, or will we wait for someone else?
And in that very hour he healed many from diseases, and from plagues, and from evil spirits; and he gave sight to many blind men.
And Jesus answering said to them, Go tell John what you have seen and heard: that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and that the poor the gospel is announced;
and blessed is he who finds no stumbling block in me.
And when John's messengers left, Jesus began to speak of John to the people: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed that is shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? To a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, those who wear precious clothing and live in delight are in the palaces of kings.
But what did you go out to see? To a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
This is the one about whom it is written: Behold, I am sending my messenger before your face, the one who will prepare your way before you.
Because I tell you that, among those born of women, there is no greater prophet than John the Baptist; however, the smallest in the kingdom of God is greater than him.
And all the people and the publicans, when they heard him, justified God, baptizing themselves with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the interpreters of the law rejected the counsel of God for themselves, not being baptized by John.
And the Lord said, To what then shall I liken the men of this generation, and to what are they like?
Similar are the boys who sit in the plaza and cry to each other, and say: We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang you mourning songs, and you did not cry.
Because John the Baptist has come, who does not eat bread or drink wine, and you say: He has a devil.
The Son of Man has come, who eats and drinks, and you say: Behold a gluttonous man and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners.
But wisdom is justified by all her children.
And one of the Pharisees begged him to eat with him. And having entered the house of the Pharisee, he sat down at the table.
And behold, a woman who had been a sinner in the city, when she learned that Jesus was at the table in that Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster bottle with perfume,
And standing behind him at his feet, weeping, he began to water his feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of his head, and kissed his feet and anointed them with perfume.
And when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself: If this were a prophet, he would know who and what kind of woman is the one who touches him, because she is a sinner.
Then Jesus answered and said to him, Simon, I have one thing to tell you. And he said: Say, Master.
A creditor had two debtors: one owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty;
and having no means to pay, he forgave them both. So say which of these will love you the most?
And Simon answering said, I think the one whom he forgave most. And he said to him: You have judged rightly.
Then, looking at the woman, he said to Simon: Do you see this woman? I entered your house and you did not give me water for my feet; but she has showered my feet with tears and wiped them with her hair.
You did not kiss me, but she, since I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet.
You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with perfume.
Therefore I tell you that his many sins are forgiven, because he loved very much; but the one who is forgiven little, loves little.
And to her he said: Your sins are forgiven.
And those who were sitting together at the table began to say to each other: Who is this, who also forgives sins?
And Jesus said to the woman: Your faith has saved you, go in peace.