And it came to pass, when Jesus was praying in one place, when he had finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
And he said to them, When you pray, say: Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done, as in heaven, so also on earth.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our sins, because we also forgive all those who owe us. And do not tempt us, but deliver us from evil.
He also said to them: Who among you who has a friend goes to him at midnight and says to him: Friend, lend me three loaves,
because a friend of mine has come to me on the way, and I have nothing to offer him;
and the one inside, responding, says: Don't bother me; the door is already closed, and my children are with me in bed; Can't I get up to give it to you?
I tell you that if he doesn't get up to give them to you for being his friend, however, because of his importunity, he will get up and give you everything you need.
And I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you,
because everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to the caller it will be opened.
And what father of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for fish, instead of fish, will he give him a snake?
Or, if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?
And Jesus was casting out a demon, which was mute; and it came to pass, after the devil had gone forth, the dumb man spoke, and the people marveled.
But some of them said: For Beelzebú, prince of demons, cast out demons.
Still others, to tempt him, asked him for a sign from heaven.
But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated; and a house divided against itself falls.
And if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom remain standing? Because you say that for Beelzebú I cast out demons.
Well, if I cast out the demons for Beelzebú, your children for whom they cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
But if by the finger of God I cast out demons, certainly the kingdom of God has come to you.
When the strong, armed man guards his home, his possessions are at peace.
But if someone stronger than him comes and defeats him, he takes away all the weapons he trusted and distributes his remains.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
When the unclean spirit leaves man, it walks through dry places, seeking rest; and when he could not find it, he says: I will return to my house where I left.
And when it arrives, it finds it swept and adorned.
So he goes and takes seven other spirits worse than he; and they go in and live there; and that man's final state is worse than the first.
And it came to pass that, while he was saying these things, a woman from the crowd, raising her voice, said to him: Blessed is the womb that brought you and the breasts that raised you!
And he said: Rather, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it!
And people crowding around him, he began to say: This generation is bad; Look for a sign, but a sign will not be given, but the sign of Jonah.
For as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of Man be to this generation.
The queen of the south will rise up in judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, one greater than Solomon is in this place.
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because at the preaching of Jonah they repented; and behold, one greater than Jonah is in this place.
No one puts the lighted candle in hiding, not under the bushel, but in the candlestick, so that those who enter see the light.
The light of the body is the eye; for if your eye is good, your whole body is also full of light; but if it is bad, your body is also in darkness.
Look, then, lest the light within you be darkness.
So if your whole body is full of light, having no part of darkness, it will be all luminous, like when a lamp shines on you with its brightness.
And after he had spoken, a Pharisee asked him to eat with him; and Jesus went in and sat at the table.
And the Pharisee, when he saw him, was surprised that he had not washed before eating.
And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and the plate; but your interior is full of rapine and evil.
You fools! Did not he who made the outside also do the inside?
But of what you have, give alms; and behold, everything will be clean for you.
But, woe to you Pharisees! You tithe mint and rue and all vegetables; but you overlook God's judgment and charity. Well, these things you needed to do, while still doing the others.
Woe to you Pharisees! You love the first chairs in the synagogues and the greetings in the squares.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You are like graves that are not seen, and the men who walk above do not know it.
And one of the interpreters of the law answered and said to him: Master, when you say this, you also reproach us.
And he said to him: Woe to you also, interpreters of the law, because you burden men with burdens that they cannot bear, but you do not even touch them with a finger.
Woe to you, that you build the graves of the prophets who were killed by your parents.
You certainly testify that you consent to the actions of your parents; because in truth they killed them, and you build their graves.
Therefore, the wisdom of God also said: I will send you prophets and apostles; and of them, some will kill and others persecute,
so that the blood of all the prophets that has been shed since the foundation of the world may be demanded of this generation,
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zacharias, who died between the altar and the temple; yes, I tell you that it will be sued by this generation.
Woe to you, interpreters of the law, because you have taken away the key to science; You yourselves did not enter, and you prevented those who entered.
And saying these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to harass him greatly and to provoke him to speak of many things,
stalking him and trying to catch a word from his mouth to accuse him.