All the tax collectors and the sinners approached Jesus to hear him;
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
Then He told them this parable, saying:
What man among you, if he has a hundred sheep and one of them is lost, does not leave the ninety-nine in the field and goes after the one that is lost until he finds it?
Upon finding it, he puts it on his shoulders, joyful;
and when he arrives at his house, he gathers the friends and the neighbors, saying: "Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost."
I tell you that in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven for a sinner who repents than for the ninety-nine righteous who do not need repentance.
Or what woman, if she has ten silver coins and loses a coin, doesn't light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it?
When he finds it, he gathers friends and neighbors together, saying: "Rejoice with me because I have found the coin I had lost."
In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over a sinner who repents.
And Jesus said: A certain man had two sons;
and the youngest of them said to the father: "Father, give me my share of the hacienda." And he distributed their goods to them.
Not many days later, the youngest son, putting it all together, left for a distant country, and there he squandered his estate living riotously.
When he had spent everything, a great famine came in that country, and he began to be in need.
So he went and approached one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him to his fields to feed pigs.
And he wanted to fill his stomach with the carob beans that the pigs ate, but nobody gave him anything.
Then, coming to his senses, he said: "How many of my father's workers have bread to spare, but I am starving here!
I will get up and go to my father, and I will say to him: "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you;
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your workers "".
And getting up, he went to his father. And when he was still away, his father saw him and felt compassion for him, and he ran, fell on his neck and kissed him.
And the son said to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son."
But the father said to his servants, "Soon; bring the best clothes and clothe him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet;
and bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let us eat and rejoice;
because this son of mine was dead and has come back to life; he was lost and has been found. "And they began to rejoice.
And her eldest son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house, he heard music and dance.
And calling one of the servants, he asked him what it was all about.
And he said to him, "Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has received it safely."
So he got mad and didn't want to go inside. His father came out and begged him to come in.
But he answered and said to the father: "Look, for so many years I have served you and I have never disobeyed any order of yours, and yet you have never given me a kid to rejoice with my friends;
But when this son of yours came, who has consumed your possessions with harlots, you killed for him the fattened calf. "
And he said to him: "My son, you have always been with me, and all that is mine is yours.
But it was necessary to celebrate and rejoice, because this, your brother, was dead and has returned to life; he was lost and has been found. "