Looking up, Jesus saw the wealthy throwing their offerings into the treasure chest.
He also saw a poor widow who put two small coins of little value there.
Then he said, "I tell you the truth, this poor widow threw more than everyone else."
For all these cast out of their abundance to the offerings; but this one, of its poverty threw all the sustenance that it had.
While some were talking about the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive offerings, he said:
"As for these things you see, days will come when there will be no stone upon stone that will not be thrown down."
So they asked him, "Master, when will this be?" What sign will there be when these things are about to happen?
Then he said: —Look that you are not deceived, because many will come in my name saying: "I am", and "The time is near". Don't go after them.
And when you hear of wars and revolutions do not be afraid. Because these things need to happen first, but the end will not be immediately.
Then he said, "Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom.
There will be great earthquakes, famines and pestilences in various places. There will be terror and great signs from heaven.
But before these things they will lay hands on you and persecute you. They will deliver them up to the synagogues and put them in jails, and they will be brought before kings and rulers because of my name.
This will serve as a witness.
Decide, therefore, in your heart, not to think beforehand how you should respond.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which cannot be resisted or contradicted by all who oppose you.
And they will be delivered even by their parents, brothers, relatives and friends; and they will kill some of you.
They will be hated by all because of my name,
but not a single hair on your head will perish.
By their perseverance they will save their lives.
"When you see Jerusalem besieged by armies, then know that its destruction has come.
Then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains; those who are in the middle of the city come out; and those who are in the fields do not enter it.
Because these are days of revenge, so that all the things that are written are fulfilled.
"Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing in those days! For there will be great calamity on the earth and wrath on this people.
They will fall by the sword and be taken captive to all nations. Jerusalem will be trampled under foot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
"Then there will be signs in the sun, the moon, and the stars. And on earth there will be anguish of the nations for the confusion before the roar of the sea and the waves.
Men faint from terror and the expectation of things to come to the inhabited world, for the powers of heaven will be shaken.
"Then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
When these things begin to happen, look and raise your head because your redemption is near.
And he told them a parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
When you see that they are already sprouting, you understand that the summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until everything happens.
Heaven and earth will pass but my words will not pass.
"Look for you, that your hearts are not loaded with gluttony, drunkenness and the worries of this life, and that that day suddenly comes upon you as a trap;
for it will come upon all who dwell on the surface of all the earth.
Watch, therefore, at all times, praying that you will have the strength to escape all these things that are going to happen, and may stand before the Son of Man.
He spent his days teaching in the temple and going out at dusk he stayed on the mount called Olivos.
And all the people came to him early to hear him in the temple.