In the fifteenth year of the empire of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod the tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip the tetrarch of the Iturea and Traconite region, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilinia,
During the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the desert.
And he went throughout the region next to the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins;
as it is written in the book of the words of the prophet Isaiah: VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "PREPARE THE WAY OF THE LORD, MAKE HIS PATHS RIGHT.
EVERY VALLEY WILL BE FILLED, AND EVERY MOUNT AND HILL REDUCED; WHAT IS TWISTED WILL BE STRAIGHT, AND THE ROUGH PATHWAYS WILL BECOME PLAIN ROADS;
AND EVERY FLESH WILL SEE GOD'S SALVATION. "
So he said to the crowds who came for him to baptize them: Litter of vipers! Who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance; And don't start saying to yourself: "We have Abraham for a father", because I tell you that God can raise children to Abraham from these stones.
And also the ax is already placed at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
And the crowds asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
He answered and said to them: He who has two robes, share with him who does not have; and the one who has to eat, do the same.
Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said, "Master, what shall we do?"
Then he answered them: Do not demand more than what you have been ordered.
Also some soldiers asked him, saying: And we, what will we do? And he said to them, "Extort no one, nor falsely accuse anyone, and be content with your wages."
As the people were waiting, and everyone wondered in their hearts about John, if he would not be the Christ,
John answered, saying to all: I baptize you with water; but the one who is more powerful than me is coming; to whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
The pitchfork is in your hand to completely clean your threshing floor and collect the wheat in your barn; but it will burn the chaff in unquenchable fire.
And also with many other exhortations, John announced the good news to the people.
But Herod the tetrarch, being rebuked by him because of Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evils Herod had done,
He also added to all of them, this one: that he locked Juan in jail.
And it came to pass that when all the people were baptized, Jesus was also baptized: and while He prayed, heaven was opened,
and the Holy Spirit descended on Him in bodily form, like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, saying: You are my beloved Son, in you I have been pleased.
And when he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about thirty years old, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, who was the son of Eli,
and Elí, by Matat; Matat, by Leví; Levi, from Melqui; Melqui, from Jana; Jana, from José;
José, from Mattathias; Mattathias of Amos; Amos of Nahum; Nahúm, by Esli; Esli, from Nagai;
Nagai of Maat; Maat, from Mattathias; Mattathias, by Semei; Semei, by José; Joseph of Judah;
Judah of Joana; Joana, from Resa; Resa, by Zerubbabel; Zerubbabel, from Salatiel; Salatiel, from Neri;
Neri, from Melqui; Melqui, from Adi; Adi, from Cosam; Cosam, from Elmodam; Elmodam, from Er;
Er, by Josué; Joshua of Eliezer; Eliezer of Jorim; Jorim, from Matat; Matat, by Leví;
Levi of Simeon; Simeon of Judah; Judah of Joseph; José, by Jonán; Jonán, from Eliaquim;
Eliaquim, from Melea; Melea, from Mainán; Mainán, from Matata; Matata, by Natán; Nathan of David;
David, by Jesse; Jesse of Obed; Boed's Obed; Boaz, from Salmon; Salmon, from Naasón;
Naasón, of Aminadab; Aminadab, from Admin; Admin, by Aram; Aram, from Esrom; Esrom, by Fares; Pharaohs of Judah;
Judah from Jacob; Jacob of Isaac; Isaac of Abraham; Abraham of Terah; Taré, from Nacor;
Nacor, from Serug; Raug's Serug; Ragau, by Peleg; Heber's Peleg; Heber, from Sala;
Sala, by Cainán; Cainán, from Arfaxad; Arfaxad, from Sem; Shem, from Noah; Noah by Lamec;
Lamec, from Methuselah; Methuselah of Enoch; Enoch by Jared; Jared of Mahalaleel; Mahalaleel, from Cainan;
Cainan, from Enos; Enos of Set; Set, from Adam; and Adam, from God.
