One day, when Jesus was teaching the people in the temple and announcing the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders approached him,
And they spoke to him saying, "Tell us, by what authority do you do these things?" Or who is it that gave you this authority?
Then he answered and said, "I will also ask you a question." Answer me:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
They reasoned among themselves saying: —If we say "from heaven" he will say: "Why then did they not believe him?"
And if we say "of men ..." all the people will stone us, because they are convinced that John was a prophet.
So they answered that they did not know where he was from.
Then Jesus said to them, "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Then he began to tell the people this parable: —A certain man planted a vineyard, leased it to some farmers, and went away for a long time.
In due course he sent a servant to the husbandmen to give him the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him up and sent him away empty-handed.
And he sent another servant again, but also this one, striking him and confronting him, they sent him empty-handed.
He sent a third servant again, but this one was also thrown out, wounded.
"Then the owner of the vineyard said:" What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; maybe they will respect him. "
But the farmers, seeing him, reasoned among themselves saying: "This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance is ours."
And throwing him out of the vineyard, they killed him. "What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy these farmers and give his vineyard to others. When they heard it, they said, "Never let such a thing happen!"
But he, looking at them, said to them: "What, then, is this that is written: The stone that the builders rejected, was this made head of the corner?" .
Anyone who falls on that stone will be broken, and will crush anyone on whom it falls.
At that time the chief priests and the scribes tried to lay hands on him because they understood that he had spoken this parable against them; but they feared the people.
Then, stalking him, they sent spies who pretended to be fair in order to surprise him in his words, and thus hand him over to the power and authority of the procurator.
They asked him saying: —Master, we know that you say and teach well, and that you do not make a distinction between people but rather teach the way of God with truth.
Is it lawful for us to pay tribute to Caesar or not?
But he, understanding their cunning, said to them:
"Show me a Roman coin." Whose image and inscription does it have? And they said, "About Caesar."
Then he said to them, "Then give Caesar what is Caesar's and God what is God's."
And they could not surprise him in any word in front of the people. Rather, they fell silent in wonder at his response.
Some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is a resurrection, came up and asked him
Saying, "Master, Moses wrote to us: If someone's brother dies leaving a woman, and he leaves no children, his brother take the woman and raise offspring for his brother."
So there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children.
Also the second.
And the third took it, and in the same way also all seven, and died without children.
Finally, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, since the seven had her as a wife, whose wife will she be?
Then Jesus answering said to them: —The children of this world marry and give in marriage.
But those who are considered worthy to reach that world to come and the resurrection of the dead do not marry or marry.
Because they can no longer die because they are like angels, and they are also children of God being children of the resurrection.
And regarding the dead to be raised, Moses also showed it in the story of the bush when he calls the Lord, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
For God is not the God of the dead but of the living; because for him everyone lives.
Some of the scribes answered him, saying: "Master, you have said well."
And they didn't dare ask him any more.
He said to them, "How do you say that the Christ is the son of David?"
Because David himself says in the book of Psalms: The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand,
until I make your enemies your footstool. "
So David calls him "Lord"; What is your son like then?
When all the people heard him, he said to his disciples:
—Beware of scribes, who like to walk in long clothes, who love greetings in the squares, the first chairs in the synagogues and the first seats at banquets.
These, who devour the houses of the widows and as a pretext make long prayers, will receive greater condemnation.