And at this same time there were some who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
And Jesus answering said to them, Do you think that these Galileans, because they had suffered such things, were more sinful than all the Galileans?
I tell you: No, rather, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
Or those eighteen on whom the tower of Siloe fell and killed them, do you think they were more guilty than all the men who live in Jerusalem?
I tell you: No, rather, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
And he told this parable: A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit in it and found it not.
And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, for three years I have come to look for fruit on this fig tree and I have not found it; cut it, why should it continue occupying the land?
He then, answering, said to her: Lord, leave it even this year, until I dig around it and pay it.
And if it bears fruit, fine; and if not, you will cut it later.
And Jesus taught in a synagogue on the Sabbath.
And behold, there was a woman there who had had a spirit of disease for eighteen years, and she was bent over and could not straighten up in any way.
And when Jesus saw her, he called her and said: Woman, you are free from your illness.
And he put his hands on her, and instantly she stood up and glorified God.
And the chief of the synagogue answering, angry that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the people: There are six days in which it is necessary to work; in these, therefore, come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath.
Then the Lord answered him and said: Hypocrite! Does not each one of you untie his ox or his ass from the manger and take it to drink on the Sabbath?
And should this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound for eighteen years, not be released from this binding on the Sabbath?
And when he said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed; but all the people rejoiced in all the glorious things that he did.
And he said, What is the kingdom of God like, and what shall I compare it to?
It is similar to the mustard seed a man took and planted in his garden; And it grew and became a big tree, and the birds of the sky made nests in its branches.
And again he said: To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
It is similar to the leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until everything had fermented.
And Jesus was passing through the cities and villages, teaching and walking towards Jerusalem.
And one asked him: Lord, are there few who are saved? And he said to them:
Make an effort to enter through the narrow door, because I tell you that many will try to enter and will not be able to.
After the father of the family gets up and closes the door, and being outside, you begin to knock on the door, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us; He, answering, will tell you: I don't know where you are from.
Then you will begin to say: In front of you we have eaten and drunk, and in our squares you taught;
But he will tell you: I tell you that I don't know where you are from; Depart from me, all you wicked workers.
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you are excluded.
And they will come from the east and the west, from the north and from the south, and will sit at the table in the kingdom of God.
And behold, the last are the first; and those who were last are first.
That same day some Pharisees came and said to him: Get out of here, because Herod wants to kill you.
And he said to them: Go and say to that fox: Behold, I am casting out demons and I am healing today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will be perfected.
However, it is necessary that today, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, I continue on my way, because it is not possible for a prophet to die outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the chicken to their chicks under their wings, and you did not want to!
Here is our house completely empty for you; and I tell you that you will not see me any more until the time comes when you say: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.