And it came to pass, as Jesus stood by the lake of Genesaret, the people crowded round him to hear the word of God.
And he saw two boats that were near the shore of the lake; and the fishermen, having descended from them, washed their nets.
And he entered one of those boats, which was Simon's, and begged him to move it away from the land a little; and sitting down, he taught from the boat to the people.
And when he ceased speaking, he said to Simon: Boga out to sea, and cast your nets to fish.
And Simon answering said to him: Master, we have worked all night and we have caught nothing; but by your word I will cast the net.
And having done so, they collected so many fish that their net broke.
Then they signaled to the companions who were in the other boat to come and help them; and both boats came and filled, so that they sank.
Seeing this, Simon Peter fell on his knees before Jesus, saying: Depart from me, Lord, because I am a sinful man.
Because the astonishment had seized him and all those who were with him, for the amount of fish they had caught;
and also of James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were companions of Simon. Then Jesus said to Simon: Fear not; from now on you will be a fisher of men.
And when the boats came ashore, leaving everything, they followed him.
And it came to pass that, while Jesus was in a city, behold a man full of leprosy, who, seeing Jesus, fell on his face and asked him, saying: Lord, if you will, you can cleanse me.
Jesus then, extending his hand, touched him saying: I want; Be clean. And instantly the leprosy left him.
And he told her not to tell anyone. Go, he said, show yourself to the priest and offer for your purification as Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.
But more and more his fame spread; And many crowds gathered to hear him and to heal them of their diseases.
But he would go to deserted places and pray.
And there came a day when he was teaching, the Pharisees and the doctors of the law were sitting there, who had come from all the villages of Galilee, and from Judea and Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was with him to heal them.
And behold, some men who brought in a bed a man who was paralyzed tried to take him inside and put him before him.
But not finding a way to enter because of the crowd, they went up on top of the house and lowered him with his bed onto the roof and put him in the middle, in front of Jesus.
Seeing their faith, Jesus said to him: Man, your sins are forgiven.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees began to think, saying: Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but only God?
Then Jesus, knowing their thoughts, answered and said to them: What do you think in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say: Your sins are forgiven, or to say: Get up and walk?
So that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he said to the paralytic): I say to you: Get up! Take up your bed and go home.
And immediately, he got up in their presence, took the bed on which he was lying, and went home glorifying God.
And amazement overwhelmed everyone, and they glorified God; and filled with fear, they said: Today we have seen wonders!
And after these things, he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi, sitting at the bank of public tributes, and said: Follow me.
And he, leaving all things, got up and followed him.
And Levi had a great banquet at his house, and there was a great company of publicans and others who were at the table with them.
And the scribes and the Pharisees murmured against the disciples, saying: Why do you eat and drink with the publicans and sinners?
And Jesus answering said to them: Those who are healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick.
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Then they said to him, Why do John's disciples fast many times and pray, and likewise those of the Pharisees, but your disciples eat and drink?
And he said to them, Can you make those who are married fast while the bridegroom is with them?
But days will come when the husband will be taken from them; then in those days they will fast.
And he also told them a parable: Nobody puts a patch of new cloth on an old dress, because in that way, the new one breaks, and the new patch does not harmonize with the old one.
And no one pours new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the new wine will break the wineskins, and the wine will spill, and the wineskins will be lost.
But the new wine in new wineskins is to be poured, and the one and the other are preserved.
And no one who has drunk from the old then wants the new, because it says: The old is better.