Gathering the twelve together, he gave them power and authority over all demons and to heal diseases.
And he sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And he said to them: Take nothing for the journey, neither staff, nor saddlebag, nor bread, nor money; nor have two robes each.
In any house where you enter, stay there, and be there your exit.
And as for those who do not receive you, when you leave that city, shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.
So they went out, and they went through the villages announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
Herod the tetrarch found out everything that was happening, and he was very perplexed, because some said that John had risen from the dead,
others that Elijah had appeared, and others that some prophet of the ancients had risen.
Then Herod said: I made John decapitate; Who, then, is this from whom I hear such things? And I tried to see him.
And when the apostles returned, they gave Jesus an account of everything they had done. And He, taking them with him, withdrew to a city called Bethsaida.
But when the people realized this, they followed him; and Jesus, receiving them, spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and healed those who needed to be healed.
The day began to decline, and the twelve approached, they said to him: Say goodbye to the crowd, so that they can go to the surrounding villages and fields, find accommodation and get food; because here we are in a desert place.
But He said to them: Give them something to eat. And they said: We have only five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people.
(Because there were about five thousand men.) And Jesus said to his disciples: Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.
They did so, making everyone sit down.
And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, raised his eyes to heaven, blessed them, and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to serve to the people.
They all ate and were satisfied; And they collected from what was left of the pieces: twelve full baskets.
And while Jesus prayed alone, the disciples were with him, and he asked them, saying: Who do the crowds say that I am?
Then they answered and said: Some, John the Baptist, others, Elijah, and others, that some prophet of the ancients has risen.
And He said to them: And who do you say that I am? And Peter answering said: The Christ of God.
But He, warning them severely, commanded them not to say this to anyone,
saying: The Son of Man must suffer greatly, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and rise again on the third day.
And he said to everyone: If anyone wants to come after me, deny yourself, take up your cross every day and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life because of me will save it.
Well, what use is it to a man to have won the whole world, if he himself is destroyed or lost?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his glory, and that of the Father, and that of the holy angels.
But in truth I tell you that there are some of those who are here, who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
And about eight days after these words, Jesus took Peter, John, and James with him, and went up the mountain to pray.
As he prayed, the appearance of his face became different, and his clothing became white and glowing.
And behold, two men were talking to Him, which were Moses and Elijah,
who appearing in glory spoke of the departure of Jesus, which He was about to accomplish in Jerusalem.
Peter and his companions had been overcome by sleep, but when they were wide awake, they saw the glory of Jesus and the two men who were with him.
And it happened that when they withdrew from Him, Peter said to Jesus: Master, it is good that we are here; Let's make three branches, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah; not knowing what he was saying.
Then, as he said this, a cloud formed that covered them; and they were afraid to enter the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my Son, my Chosen One; Hear him.
After the voice was heard, Jesus was found alone. They kept it to themselves, and in those days they did not tell anyone about what they had seen.
And it happened that the next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him.
And behold, a man from the crowd shouted, saying: Master, I beg you to see my son, for he is the only one I have,
and it happens that a spirit seizes him, and suddenly he cries out, and the spirit makes him fall with convulsions, foaming; and bruising him, she hardly turns away from him.
So I begged your disciples to cast him out, and they couldn't.
Jesus answered and said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long must I be with you and bear you? Bring your son here.
As it approached, the demon knocked him down and made him fall with convulsions. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy and returned him to his father.
And everyone was amazed at the greatness of God. While everyone was amazed at all the things he did, Jesus said to his disciples:
Make these words penetrate your ears, because the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.
But they did not understand these words, and they were veiled so that they did not understand them; and they were afraid to ask him about them.
And a discussion arose between them, about which of them would be the greatest.
Then Jesus, knowing what they were thinking in their hearts, took a child and put him by his side,
And he said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me; because the one who is smallest among all of you, that one is great.
And John answering said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in your name, and we tried to prevent him because he is not with us.
But Jesus said to him: Do not stop him; for he who is not against you is with you.
And it happened that when the days of his ascension were fulfilled, He, with determination, affirmed his face to go to Jerusalem.
And he sent messengers before him; and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him.
But they did not receive him, because they knew that he had determined to go to Jerusalem.
Seeing this, his disciples James and John said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?
But He turned and rebuked them, and said: You do not know what spirit you are from,
for the Son of Man has not come to destroy the souls of men, but to save them. And they went to another village.
And while they were on the road, one said to him: I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him: Foxes have burrows and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
To another he said: Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me go first to bury my father.
But He said to him: Let the dead bury their dead; but you, go and announce everywhere the kingdom of God.
Another also said: I will follow you, Lord; but first let me say goodbye to those in my house.
But Jesus said to him: No one who, after putting his hand to the plow, looks back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
