Looking up, Jesus saw the wealthy throwing their offerings into the treasure chest.
And he also saw a poor widow throwing there two small copper coins;
and said: Truly I say to you, that this poor widow threw more than all of them;
Because they all threw in the offering of what was left over, but she, out of her poverty, threw out everything she had to live on.
And while some were talking about the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive offerings, Jesus said:
As for these things that you are looking at, the days will come when there will not be a stone on a stone that will not be knocked down.
And they asked him, saying, Master, when will this happen, and what sign will there be when these things will happen?
And He said: See that you are not deceived; because many will come in my name, saying: "I am the Christ", and: "The time is near". Don't follow them.
And when you hear of wars and riots, don't panic; because these things have to happen first, but the end will not happen immediately.
Then he said to them: Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom;
there will be great earthquakes, and plagues and famines in various places; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for my name's sake.
This will give you an opportunity to testify.
Therefore, propose in your hearts not to prepare your defense beforehand;
for I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or refute.
But you will be delivered even by parents, brothers, relatives and friends; and they will kill some of you,
and you will be hated by all because of my name.
However, not a hair on your head will perish.
With your perseverance you will win your souls.
But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near.
Then those who are in Judea, flee to the mountains, and those who are in the middle of the city, stay away; and those who are in the fields, do not enter it;
because these are days of revenge, so that all the things that are written are fulfilled.
Woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days! For there will be a great calamity on earth, and anger for this people;
and they will fall by the edge of the sword, and they will be taken captive to all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden under foot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in the sun, in the moon, and in the stars, and on the earth, anguish among the nations, perplexed by the roar of the sea and the waves,
men fainting with fear and expectation of things to come on the world; for the powers of heaven will be shaken.
And then they will see THE SON OF MAN COMING IN A CLOUD with power and great glory.
When these things begin to happen, stand up and raise your heads, because your redemption is coming.
And he told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
When the leaves are already sprouting, when you see it, you know for yourself that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
Be on the alert, lest your heart be burdened with dissipation and drunkenness and with the cares of life, and that day suddenly come upon you like a snare;
for it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
But watch at all times, praying that you have strength to escape all these things that are about to happen, and you can stand before the Son of Man.
During the day he taught in the temple, but at dusk he would go out and spend the night on the hill called Olives.
And all the people got up early to go to the temple to listen to him.