And the day of the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, was near.
And the chief priests and scribes were looking for ways to kill him, because they were afraid of the people.
And Satan entered Judas, by the nickname Iscariot, the one who was one of the twelve;
and he went and talked with the chief priests and the officers about how he would be delivered.
They were happy and agreed to give him money.
And he promised and was looking for an opportunity to deliver it to them secretly from the town.
And the day of unleavened bread came, in which it was necessary to sacrifice the Passover lamb.
Then Jesus sent Peter and John, saying: Go, prepare Easter for us to eat.
And they said to him: Where do you want us to prepare it?
And he said to them, Behold, when you enter the city, a man will come to meet you, carrying a pitcher of water; follow him to the house where he enters
and say to the father of that house: The Master says to you: Where is the room where I will eat Easter with my disciples?
Then he will show you a large upper room, already arranged; prepare it there.
So they went and found as I had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
And when the hour came, he sat down at the table, and with him the twelve apostles.
And he said to them, I have greatly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer,
for I tell you, I will not eat any more of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And taking the cup, after giving thanks, he said: Take this and divide it among yourselves,
For I tell you, I will not drink the fruit of the vine any more until the kingdom of God comes.
Then he took the bread, and having given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying: This is my body, which is given for you; Do this in remembrance of me.
And he also took the cup, after supper, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you.
But, behold, the hand of the bearer is with me on the table.
And in truth the Son of Man goes, according to what is determined; but, woe to that man by whom he is delivered!
They then began to ask each other which of them would be the one to do this.
And there was also a dispute between them about which of them would be the greatest.
Then he said to them: The kings of the nations rule over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors.
But among you it will not be so, but the greatest among you be as the least, and the one who directs as the one who serves.
Because which is greater, the one who sits at the table or the one who serves? Isn't he the one who sits at the table? However, I am among you as the one who serves.
And you are the ones who have stayed with me in my trials.
So I assign you a kingdom, as my Father assigned it to me,
so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
The Lord also said: Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has asked you to shake you like wheat;
but I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail; and you, once returned, strengthen your brothers.
And he said to him: Lord, I am ready to go with you even to prison and death.
And he said: Pedro, I tell you that the rooster will not crow today before you deny three times that you know me.
And he said to them: When I sent you without a bag, and without a saddlebag, and without sandals, did you lack anything? And they said: Nothing.
And he said to them: Well now, the one who has a bag, take it, and also the saddlebag; and he who has no sword, sell his cloak and buy one.
Because I tell you that what is written must still be fulfilled in me: And with the wicked it was numbered, because what is written about me has fulfillment.
Then they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said to them: Enough.
And leaving, he went, as he used to, to the Mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.
And when he came to that place, he said to them: Pray that you do not enter into temptation.
And he withdrew from them at a distance like a stone's throw; and on his knees he prayed,
saying: Father, if you want, pass me this cup; but not my will, but yours be done.
Then an angel from heaven appeared to him to strengthen him.
And being in agony, he prayed more intensely; and it was his sweat like great drops of blood falling to the ground.
And when he got up from prayer and went to his disciples, he found them sleeping because of sadness;
And he said to them: Why do you sleep? Arise and pray that you will not be tempted.
While he was still speaking, behold, a mob arrived; and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them and approached Jesus to kiss him.
Then Jesus said to him: Judas, do you give the Son of Man with a kiss?
And when those who were with him saw what was going to happen, they said to him: Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And one of them struck a servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Then Jesus answered and said: Leave, enough is enough. And touching his ear, he healed him.
And Jesus said to those who had come to him, the chief priests, and the temple officials, and the elders, "Have you come out with swords and sticks against a thief?
Having been with you every day in the temple, you did not spread your hands against me; but this is your hour and that of the power of darkness.
And seizing him, they took him away and led him to the high priest's house. And Pedro followed him from afar.
And having lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and sitting all around, Peter also sat among them.
And when a maid saw him sitting on the fire, she noticed him and said: This one was with him.
Then he denied it, saying: Woman, I don't know him.
And a little later, when another saw him, he said: You are also one of them. And Peter said: Man, I am not.
And about an hour later, another affirmed, saying: Truly this man was also with him, because he is a Galilean.
And Peter said: Man, I don't know what you are saying. And right away, while he was still talking, the rooster crowed.
Then the Lord turned and looked at Peter; And Peter remembered the word that the Lord had said to him: Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.
And Peter, going outside, wept bitterly.
And the men who watched Jesus mocked him and beat him;
and blindfolded him, they struck his face and asked him, saying: Prophesy, who is it that hit you?
And they said many other things, insulting him.
And when it was day, the elders of the people, and the chief priests, and the scribes, gathered, and brought him before the council, saying:
Are you the Christ? Tell us. And he said to them: If I tell you, you will not believe;
And also, if I ask you, you will not answer me or let me go.
But from now on the Son of Man will sit at the right hand of the power of God.
And they all said: Then are you the Son of God? And he said to them: You say that I am.
Then they said: What more testimony do we need ?, because we ourselves have heard it from his mouth.