And when Jesus had entered Jericho, he was passing through the city;
and behold a man named Zacchaeus, who was the chief of the publicans and was rich,
I was trying to see who Jesus was; but he could not because of the crowd, for he was small in stature.
And, running ahead, he climbed a sycamore tree to see him, because he had to go there.
And when Jesus came to that place, looking up, he saw him and said: Zacchaeus, hurry up, come down, because today it is necessary for me to stay at your house.
Then he hurried down and received him joyfully.
And when they saw this, they all murmured, saying that they had entered to stay with a sinful man.
Then Zacchaeus, standing up, said to the Lord: Behold, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor; And if I have defrauded anyone, I will give it back four times.
And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he is also the son of Abraham.
Because the Son of Man has come to seek and save what was lost.
And when they heard these things, Jesus went on and told a parable, because it was close to Jerusalem and because they thought that the kingdom of God was to be manifested immediately.
So he said: A noble man set out to a distant province to receive a kingdom and return.
And he called ten of his servants, gave them ten minas, and said to them, "Negotiate in the meantime that he return."
But his fellow citizens hated him and sent an embassy after him, saying: We do not want this one to reign over us.
And it came to pass, that when he returned, having received the kingdom, he commanded to call before him those servants to whom he had given the money, to know what each had negotiated.
And the first came, saying, Lord, your mine has gained ten mines.
And he said to him: Well done, good servant; Because you have been faithful in a little, you will have authority over ten cities.
And another came, saying: Lord, your mine has produced five mines.
And also to this he said: You also will be over five cities.
And another came, saying, Lord, behold your mina, which I have kept in a handkerchief,
Because I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man, that you take what you did not put and reap what you did not sow.
Then he said to him, "Evil servant, I judge you by your own mouth. You knew that I am a severe man, that I take what I did not put and that I reap what I did not sow.
Why then did you not put my money in the bank, so that when I returned I would have received it with the interest?
And he said to those who were present, Take away the mine and give it to the one who has the ten mines.
And they said to him: Lord, you have ten mines.
For I say to you, to everyone who has, it will be given; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
And also those my enemies who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and kill them before me.
And having said this, he went ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that, coming near Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount called of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
saying: Go to the opposite village, and when you enter it, you will find a tied colt on which no man has ever ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone asks you: Why are you untying him ?, you will answer him like this: Because the Lord needs him.
And they were the ones who had been sent and found as he told them.
And when they untied the colt, their owners said to them: Why do you untie the colt?
And they said: Because the Lord needs it.
And they brought him to Jesus; And having cast their cloaks on the colt, they raised Jesus on top of it.
And as he went, they spread their cloaks on the road.
And when they came near the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a loud voice for all the wonders they had seen,
saying: Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord; Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
Then some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Master, rebuke your disciples.
And he, answering, said to them: I tell you that if these were silent, the stones would cry out.
And when he got close to the city, when he saw her, he cried for her,
saying: Oh, if only you had known, at least in this your day, what is for your peace! But now it is hidden from your eyes.
For the days will come upon you when your enemies will surround you with a bulwark, and they will besiege you and harass you everywhere,
and they will bring you down to the ground, and your children within you; And they will not leave you stone upon stone, because you did not know the time of your visitation.
And entering the temple, he began to cast out everyone who sold and bought in it,
saying to them: It is written: My house is a house of prayer; but you have made it a den of thieves.
And he taught every day in the temple; but the chief priests, and the scribes, and the chief of the people, sought to kill him.
And they could not find what to do, because all the people were watching him, listening to him.