And Jesus also told them a parable about the need to always pray and not lose heart,
saying: There was a judge in a city who neither feared God nor respected man.
There was also in that city a widow, who came to him, saying: Do me justice against my adversary.
And he did not want for some time; but after this, he said within himself: Although I do not fear God nor have respect for man,
However, because this widow bothers me, I will do her justice, lest, coming continually, I run out of patience.
And the Lord said: Hear what the unjust judge said.
And will not God do justice to his elect who cry out to him day and night, even if he is long-suffering about them?
I tell you, it will soon do them justice. But when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?
And to some who trusted themselves as righteous, and looked down on others, he also told this parable:
Two men went up to the temple to pray; one was a Pharisee and the other a publican.
The Pharisee, standing up, prayed to himself in this way: God, I thank you because I am not like other men: thieves, unjust, adulterers, not even like this tax collector;
I fast twice a week, I tithe on everything I earn.
But the publican, being far away, did not even want to raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his chest, saying: God, have mercy on me, sinner.
I tell you, this one went down to his house justified before the other, because anyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
And they brought the children to him, that he should touch them, which, when the disciples saw, they rebuked them.
But Jesus, calling them, said: Let the children come to me and do not hinder them, for such is the kingdom of God.
Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And a ruler asked him, saying: Good teacher, what will I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? There is none good, but only God.
You know the commandments: You will not commit adultery; you will not kill; you will not steal; you will not give false testimony; honor your father and mother.
And he said: All these things I have kept from my youth.
And Jesus, hearing this, said to him: You still lack one thing: sell everything you have and give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
Then he, hearing these things, became very sad, because he was very rich.
And when Jesus saw that he had become very sad, he said: How hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
And those who heard it said, Who then can be saved?
And he said to them: What is impossible for men is possible for God.
Then Peter said: Behold, we have left our possessions and have followed you.
And he said to them: Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left a house, or parents, or brothers, or woman, or children for the kingdom of God,
may I not receive much more at this time, and in the world to come eternal life.
And Jesus, taking the twelve, said to them, Behold, now we go up to Jerusalem, and all the things that were written by the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled.
For he will be delivered to the Gentiles, and will be mocked, and reviled and spit on him.
And after they have scourged him, they will kill him; but on the third day he will rise again.
But they understood nothing of these things, and this word was hidden from them, and they did not understand what was said to them.
And it came to pass, as he approached Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the wayside, begging;
the one who, when he heard the people passing by, asked what that was.
And they told him that Jesús Nazareno was passing.
Then he cried out, saying: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And those who went before rebuked him to be silent; but he cried much more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
Jesus then, stopping, ordered to bring him into his presence; and when he arrived, he asked him,
saying: What do you want me to do to you? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said to him: Receive your sight, your faith has healed you.
And immediately he saw and followed him, glorifying God; and all the people, when they saw that, gave praise to God.