On the same occasion, some were there telling him of certain Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with the blood of their sacrifices.
Jesus answered and said to them: "Do you think that these Galileans, because they suffered these things, will have been more sinners than all the Galileans?
I tell you, no; rather, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
Or those eighteen on whom the tower of Siloe fell and killed them, do they think that they will have been more guilty than all the men who live in Jerusalem?
I tell you, no; rather, if you do not repent, you will all perish in the same way. "
Then he told this parable: "A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he went looking for fruit in it and did not find it.
Then he said to the vinedresser: 'Behold, for three years now I have been looking for fruit on this fig tree and I cannot find it. So cut it off. Why should it also render land useless? '
Then he answered her saying, 'Lord, leave her even this year until I dig around her and compost her.
If it bears fruit in the future, fine; and if not, you will cut it. '"
Jesus taught in one of the synagogues on Saturday.
And here is a woman who had had the spirit of illness for eighteen years, was hunched over and could not straighten up in any way.
When Jesus saw her, he called her and said: "Woman, you are free from your illness."
He put his hands on her, and instantly straightened up and glorified God.
And answering the head of the synagogue, angry that Jesus had healed on Saturday, he said to the people: —There are six days in the week in which you must work. Come, then, on these days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.
Then the Lord answered him saying: "Hypocrite!" Doesn't each one of you untie his ox or his ass from the manger on the Sabbath and take it to drink?
And this, being the daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has been bound for eighteen years, should she not be freed from this bondage on the Sabbath?
When he said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed. And all the people rejoiced in all the glorious things that he did.
So he said, "What is the kingdom of God like?" What will I compare it to?
It is similar to a mustard seed that a man took and planted in his garden; and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the sky made nests in its branches.
Again he said, "To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?"
It is similar to the yeast that a woman took and hid in a large quantity of flour until everything was leavened.
Jesus passed through the cities and villages teaching and walking towards Jerusalem.
Then someone said to him, "Sir, are there few who are saved?" And he said to them:
"Strive to enter through the narrow door, because I tell you that many will try to enter and cannot.
After the homeowner gets up and closes the door, you outside will start knocking on the door saying, "Lord, open up for us!" But responding he will tell them: "I don't know where you are from."
Then they will begin to say: "In front of you we have eaten and drunk, and in our squares you taught."
But he will speak to them saying: "I do not know where you are from. Depart from me all those who do iniquity!"
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you cast out.
They will come from the east and the west, from the north and the south; and they will sit at the table in the kingdom of God.
Behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.
At the same hour certain Pharisees came and said to him, "Get out of here, because Herod wants to kill you."
He said to them, "Go and tell that fox: 'Behold, I am casting out demons and I am healing today and tomorrow, and on the third day I am finished.'
However, it is necessary for me to go my way today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow because it is not possible for a prophet to die outside Jerusalem.
"Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you! How many times I wanted to gather your children, just as the hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you did not want to!
Behold, your house is left deserted. I tell you, you will not see me again until the day comes when you say: "Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!"