Jesus, filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the desert
for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days, after which he was hungry.
Then the devil said to him: If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread.
Jesus replied: It is written: "NOT ONLY OF BREAD WILL MAN LIVE."
Taking him to a height, the devil showed him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world.
And the devil said to him: All this dominion and its glory I will give you; Well, it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I want.
Therefore, if you bow down before me, everything will be yours.
Jesus answered and said to him: It is written: "YOU SHALL WORSHIP THE LORD YOUR GOD, AND YOU WILL ONLY SERVE."
Then the devil took him to Jerusalem and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him: If you are the Son of God, jump down from here,
for it is written: "TO HIS ANGELS HE WILL COMMIT YOU TO GUARD YOU",
and: "THEY WILL TAKE YOU IN THE HANDS, UNLIKE YOUR FOOT BREAKS IN STONE".
Jesus answered and said to him: It has been said: "YOU WILL NOT TEMPT THE LORD YOUR GOD."
When the devil had finished all temptation, he turned away from Him, waiting for an opportune time.
Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit, and the news about Him spread throughout that region.
And he taught in his synagogues, being praised by all.
He came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and according to his custom, entered the synagogue on the Sabbath, and rose to read.
They gave him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and opening the book, he found the place where it was written:
THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD IS UPON ME, BECAUSE HE HAS ANOINTED ME TO ANNOUNCE THE GOSPEL TO THE POOR. HE HAS SENT ME TO PROCLAIM FREEDOM TO THE CAPTIVES, AND THE RECOVERY OF THE SIGHT TO THE BLIND; TO RELEASE THE OPPRESSED;
TO PROCLAIM THE LORD'S FAVORABLE YEAR.
Closing the book, he returned it to the assistant and sat down; and everyone's eyes in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
And he began to say to them: Today this Scripture that you have heard has been fulfilled.
And they all spoke well of Him and marveled at the graceful words that came out of his mouth, and said: Is not this the son of Joseph?
Then He said to them: No doubt you will quote me this saying: "Physician, heal yourself"; that is, everything we hear that has been done in Capernaum, do it also here in your land.
And he said: Truly I say to you, that no prophet is well received in his own land.
But in truth I tell you: there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when heaven was closed for three years and six months and when there was a great famine over all the earth;
and yet to none of them was Elijah sent, but to a widow of Sarepta, in the land of Sidon.
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, but none of them was cleansed, but Naaman the Syrian.
And everyone in the synagogue was filled with anger when they heard these things,
And rising up, they cast him out of the city, and brought him to the top of the mountain on which his city was built, to cast him down.
But He, passing through their midst, left.
And he went down to Capernaum, the city of Galilee. And he taught them on the Sabbath days;
and they admired his teaching because his message was authoritative.
And there was a man in the synagogue possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice:
Leave us, what have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
Jesus then rebuked him, saying: Shut up and get out of him! And after the demon knocked him down in their midst, he came out of it without doing him any harm.
And they were all amazed, and they argued among themselves, saying: What message is this? Because with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits and they go out.
And his fame spread everywhere in the surrounding region.
And getting up, he left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. And Simon's mother-in-law was suffering from a very high fever, and they begged for her.
And leaning over her, he rebuked the fever, and the fever left her; and instantly she got up and served them.
At sunset, all those who were sick with various diseases took them to Him; and putting his hands on each one of them, he healed them.
Demons also came out of many, shouting and saying: You are the Son of God! But, rebuking them, He did not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ.
When daylight came, he went out and went to a lonely place; And the crowds were looking for Him, and they got to where He was and tried to stop Him so that He would not separate from them.
But He said to them: Also to the other cities I must announce the good news of the kingdom of God, because for this I have been sent.
And he preached in the synagogues of Judea.