In these circumstances, when a multitude of thousands and thousands had gathered, so much that they were running over each other, Jesus began to say first to his disciples: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
And there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, nor hidden that is not to be known.
Therefore, everything you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed from the rooftops.
And I say to you, my friends: do not fear those who kill the body, and after this they have nothing else they can do.
But I will show you who you must fear: fear the one who, after killing, has the power to cast into hell; yes, I say to you: fear this!
Are not five sparrows sold for two rooms? And yet not one of them is forgotten before God.
What's more, even the hairs on your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are worth more than many sparrows.
And I tell you, whoever confesses me before men, the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God;
But whoever denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
And everyone who says a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; But whoever blasphemes the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
And when they take you to the synagogues and before the rulers and authorities, don't worry about how or what you will speak in self-defense, or what you are going to say;
because the Holy Spirit in that same hour will teach you what you must say.
One of the crowd said to him: Master, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But He said to him: Man! Who has put me as judge or referee over you?
And he said to them: Be attentive and beware of all forms of greed; because even when someone has abundance, his life does not consist of his assets.
He also told them a parable, saying: The land of a certain rich man had produced much.
And he thought within himself, saying: "What will I do, since I have no place to store my crops?"
Then he said, "This I will do: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
And I will say to my soul: Alma, you have many assets deposited for many years; rest, eat, drink, have fun. "
But God said to him: "Fool! This very night your soul is demanded; and now, for whom will it be what you have provided?"
So is he who accumulates treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
And he said to his disciples: That is why I tell you: Do not worry about your life, what you will eat; nor for your body, what will you wear.
Because life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Consider the crows, which neither sow nor reap; they have no cellar or barn, and yet God feeds them; How much more valuable are you than the birds!
And who of you, eager as he is, can add an hour to the course of his life?
If you, then, cannot do something so small, why do you worry about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow; they neither work nor spin; But I tell you, not even Solomon in all his glory dressed like one of these.
And if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will He do for you, you of little faith!
So do not seek what you should eat or what you should drink, and do not be concerned.
Because the peoples of the world anxiously seek all these things; but your Father knows that you need these things.
But seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you.
Do not fear, little flock, because your Father has decided to give you the kingdom.
Sell ​​your possessions and give alms; Make yourselves bags that do not deteriorate, a treasure in the heavens that does not run out, where no thief approaches or the moth destroys.
Because where your treasure is, there will also be your heart.
Always be prepared and keep the lamps on,
and be like men who wait for their lord who returns from weddings, to open him as soon as he arrives and calls.
Blessed are those servants whom the lord, upon coming, finds watching; Truly, I say to you, he will gird himself to serve, and he will seat them at the table, and drawing near, he will serve them.
And whether he comes on the second watch, or even the third, and finds them so, blessed are those servants.
You can be sure that if the owner of the house had known what time the thief was coming, he would not have allowed him to enter his house.
Be prepared, too, for the Son of Man will come at the hour you do not expect.
Then Peter said: Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to all the others?
And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward whom his lord will put upon his servants, that he may give them their rations in due time?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
I really tell you that he will put it on all his assets.
But if that servant says in his heart: "My lord will be late in coming"; and he begins to beat the servants and the maids, and to eat, to drink and to get drunk;
the lord of that servant will arrive one day, when he does not expect it and at an hour that he does not know, and will whip him severely, and assign him a place with the unbelievers.
And that servant who knew the will of his master, and who did not prepare himself or act according to his will, will receive many lashes;
but he who did not know it, and did things that deserved punishment, will be whipped little. Anyone who has been given much, much will be required of him; And to the one who has been entrusted with much, they will demand more.
I have come to cast fire on the earth; and how I wish it was already on!
But of a baptism I have to be baptized, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
Do you think I came to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
Because from now on, five in one house will be divided; three against two and two against three.
The father will be divided against the son and the son against the father; mother against daughter and daughter against mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
He also said to the crowds: When you see a cloud rising in the west, you instantly say: "A downpour is coming", and so it happens.
And when the south wind blows, you say: "It's going to be hot", and so it happens.
You hypocrites! You know how to examine the aspect of the earth and the sky; so why don't you examine this present time?
And why don't you judge for yourself what is fair?
Because while you go with your adversary to appear before the magistrate, try to settle with him along the way, lest you drag yourself before the judge, and the judge hand you over to the bailiff, and the bailiff throw you in jail.
I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid even the last penny.