And it came to pass that on one of the days when He was teaching the people in the temple and announcing the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes were confronted with the elders,
And they spoke to him, saying, Tell us, by what authority do you do these things, or who gave you this authority?
He answered and said to them: I will also ask you a question; tell me:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say: "Why didn't you believe him?"
But if we say: "Of men", all the people will stone us to death, because they are convinced that John was a prophet.
And they replied that they did not know where he was from.
Jesus then said to them: Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
And he began to tell the people this parable: A man planted a vineyard, and leased it to farmers, and he went away for a long time.
And at the time of the harvest he sent a servant to the farmers to give him part of the fruit of the vineyard; but the farmers, after beating him, sent him empty-handed.
He sent another servant again; and they, too, after beating him and outraging him, sent him empty-handed.
He resubmitted a third party; and this one they also wounded and cast out.
Then the owner of the vineyard said: "What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him."
But when the farmers saw it, they reasoned among themselves, saying: "This is the heir; let's kill him so that the inheritance is ours."
And throwing him out of the vineyard, they killed him. So what will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy these farmers, and he will give the vineyard to others. And when they heard this, they said: Such a thing never happens!
But He, looking at them intently, said: Then, what does this mean that is written: "THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BEEN CORNERED"?
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken; and the one on whom she falls will scatter it like dust.
The scribes and the chief priests tried to lay hands on him at that very hour, but they feared the people; because they understood that he had spoken this parable against them.
And stalking him, they sent spies who pretended to be fair, to surprise him with some declaration in order to hand him over to the power and authority of the governor.
And they asked him, saying: Master, we know that you speak and teach righteously, and you are not guided by appearances, but you truly teach the way of God.
Is it lawful for us to pay tax to Caesar, or not?
But He, perceiving their cunning, said to them:
Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it carry? And they said to him: Of Caesar.
Then He said to them: Well give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
And they could not surprise him in any way before the people; and amazed at his response, they fell silent.
And some of the Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) approached him, they asked him,
Saying: Master, Moses wrote to us: "IF THE BROTHER OF SOMEONE DIES, having a WOMAN, AND DOES NOT LEAVE CHILDREN, let HIS BROTHER TAKE THE WOMAN AND RAISE HIS BROTHER UP."
So there were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and died without leaving children;
and the second
and the third took it; and in the same way also the seven, and died without leaving children.
Finally, the woman also died.
Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife will she be? Because the seven had her as a wife.
And Jesus said to them: The children of this age marry and are given in marriage,
but those who are considered worthy to reach that century and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage;
because they cannot die anymore, because they are like angels, and they are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
But that the dead are raised, even Moses taught it, in that passage on the burning bush, where he calls to the Lord, THE GOD OF ABRAHAM, AND THE GOD OF ISAAC, AND THE GOD OF JACOB.
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; because everyone lives for Him.
And some of the scribes answered and said: Master, you have spoken well.
Because they no longer dared to ask him anything.
Then He said to them: How is it that they say that the Christ is the son of David?
For David himself says in the book of Psalms: THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD: "SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND,
UNTIL I PUT YOUR ENEMIES BY THE STRIP OF YOUR FEET. "
David therefore calls him "Lord". How then is He your son?
While all the people listened, he said to the disciples:
Beware of scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and are fond of respectful greetings in the squares, and of taking the first seats in synagogues and places of honor at banquets;
who devour widows' houses, and for appearances make long prayers; they will receive further condemnation.
