After this, the Lord appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two before Him, to every city and place where He was to go.
And he said to them: The harvest is great, but the workers few; Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
Go; See that I send you like lambs among wolves.
Do not bring a bag, saddlebag, or sandals; and greet no one on the way.
In any house you enter, say first: "Peace to this house."
And if there is a son of peace there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will come back to you.
So stay in that house, eating and drinking what they give you; because the worker is worthy of his salary. Do not go from house to house.
In whatever city you enter and are received, eat what is served to you;
Heal the sick in it, and say to them, "The kingdom of God has drawn near to you."
But in any city where you enter, and they do not receive you, go out to its streets, and say:
"Even the dust of your city that clings to our feet, we shake off in protest against you; but know this: that the kingdom of God is at hand."
I tell you that on that day the punishment for Sodom will be more tolerable than for that city.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you Betsaida! Because if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have repented long ago sitting on sackcloth and ash.
Therefore, the judgment will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, will you be raised to heaven? Even Hades you will be sunk!
He who listens to you listens to me, and he who rejects you rejects me; and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me.
The seventy returned with joy, saying: Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name.
And He said to them: I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning.
Behold, I have given you authority to trample over serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing will harm you.
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.
In that same hour He rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit, and said: I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you hid these things from wise and intelligent, and revealed them to children. Yes, Father, because it was to your liking.
All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is but the Father, nor who is the Father but the Son, and who the Son wants to reveal it to.
And turning to the disciples, he said to them apart: Blessed are the eyes that see what you see;
for I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
And behold, a certain interpreter of the law arose, and to test him said, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And He said to him: What is written in the law? What do you read in it?
He answered and said: YOU SHALL LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD WITH ALL YOUR HEART, AND WITH ALL YOUR SOUL, AND WITH ALL YOUR STRENGTH, AND WITH ALL YOUR MIND; AND YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF.
Then Jesus said to him: You have answered correctly; DO THIS AND YOU WILL LIVE.
But wanting to justify himself, he said to Jesus: And who is my neighbor?
Jesus answered and said, A certain man came down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell into the hands of robbers, who after stripping him and beating him, left, leaving him half dead.
By chance a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw it, he passed the other side of the road.
In the same way, also a frock coat, when he arrived at the place and saw it, passed by the other side of the road.
But a certain Samaritan, who was going on a trip, came to where he was; and when he saw it, he had compassion,
And approaching, he bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them; And putting him on his own mount, he carried him to an inn and cared for him.
The next day, taking out two denarii, he gave them to the innkeeper, and said: "Take care of it, and everything else you spend, when I return I will pay you."
Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the one who fell into the hands of the robbers?
And he said: He who had mercy on him. And Jesus said to him: Go and do the same.
While they were on the way, He entered a certain village; and a woman named Marta met him at his home.
And she had a sister named Maria, who sat at the Lord's feet, listening to his word.
But Marta was concerned with all the preparations; And approaching him, she said: Lord, don't you mind if my sister lets me serve alone? So tell him to help me.
The Lord answered and said to her: Marta, Marta, you are worried and bothered by so many things;
but only one thing is necessary, and Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken from her.