Because many have tried to compile a history of things that are very true between us,
as they have been transmitted to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word,
It seemed convenient to me too, after having diligently investigated everything from the beginning, to write them in order, Your Excellency Theophilus,
so you know the precise truth about the things that have been taught to you.
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a certain priest named Zacharias, from the group of Abijah, who had as his wife one of the daughters of Aaron named Elizabeth.
Both were righteous before God, and conducted themselves blamelessly in all the commandments and precepts of the Lord.
They had no children, because Elizabeth was sterile, and they were both elderly.
But it happened that while Zacharias was exercising his priestly ministry before God according to the order indicated to his group,
In accordance with the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the Lord's temple and burn incense.
And all the multitude of the people was praying outside at the time of the incense offering.
And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense.
Seeing him, Zacharias was troubled, and fear seized him.
But the angel said to him: Do not be afraid, Zacharias, because your request has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will give you a son, and you will call him John.
And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth.
For he will be great before the Lord; He will drink neither wine nor liquor, and will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb.
And he will bring back many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God.
And he will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah TO MAKE THE HEARTS OF THE FATHERS RETURN TO THE CHILDREN, and to the disobedient to the attitude of the righteous, in order to prepare for the Lord a well-disposed people.
Then Zacharias said to the angel: How can I know this? Because I am old and my wife is elderly.
The angel answered and said to him: I am Gabriel, who is in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and announce this good news.
And behold, you will remain silent, and you will not be able to speak until the day when all this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in due time.
And the people were waiting for Zacharias, and they were surprised at his delay in the temple.
But when he came out, he couldn't speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple; and he spoke to them with signs, and remained silent.
And when the days of his priestly service were completed, he returned home.
And after these days, Elizabeth his wife conceived, and secluded herself for five months, saying:
Thus has the Lord acted with me in the days when he deigned to look at me to remove my affront among men.
And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth,
a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, of David's descendants; and the virgin's name was Maria.
And when the angel entered, he said: Hail, very favored! The Lord is with you; blessed are you among women.
But she was greatly troubled by these words, and wondered what kind of greeting this would be.
And the angel said to her: Fear not, Mary, because you have found grace before God.
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will name him Jesus.
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David;
and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end.
Then Mary said to the angel: How will this be, since I am a virgin?
The angel answered and said to him: The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will cover you with his shadow; therefore the holy Child who will be born will be called the Son of God.
And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son; and this is the sixth month for her, the one they called sterile.
Because nothing will be impossible for God.
Then Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be done to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.
In those days Mary got up and hurried to the mountainous region, to a city of Judah;
and entered into Zacharias's house and greeted Elizabeth.
And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the creature leaped into her womb; and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,
And she cried out with a loud voice and said: Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Why has this happened to me, that the mother of my Lord comes to me?
Because behold, as soon as the voice of your greeting reached my ears, the creature jumped for joy in my belly.
And blessed is she who believed that what was said to her by the Lord will be fulfilled.
Then Mary said: My soul magnifies the Lord,
and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior.
Because he has looked at the humble condition of this his servant; for behold, from now on all generations will consider me blessed.
Because great things the Mighty One has done to me; and holy is his name.
AND FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION IS HIS MERCY TO THOSE WHO FEAR HIM.
He has done feats with his arm; it has scattered the proud in the thought of their hearts.
He has removed the mighty from their thrones; and has exalted the humble;
HE HAS FILLED THE HUNGRY WITH GOODS and has fired the rich with empty hands.
He has helped Israel, his servant, in remembrance of his mercy
just as he said to our parents, to Abraham and to his descendants forever.
And Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months, and then returned to her home.
When Elizabeth's time for delivery was complete, she gave birth to a son.
And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown his great mercy towards her; and they rejoiced with her.
And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the boy, and they were going to call him Zacharias after his father's name.
But the mother answered, and said: No, but his name will be Juan.
And they said to him: There is no one in your family who has that name.
So they asked the father what he wanted to call him.
And he asked for a tablet and wrote the following: His name is Juan. And everyone was amazed.
Instantly his mouth was opened and he released his tongue, and he began to speak praising God.
And fear came over all who lived around him; and all these things were discussed throughout the mountainous region of Judea.
And all who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What then will this child become? Because the hand of the Lord was certainly with him.
And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied saying:
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has visited us and made redemption for his people,
and he has raised up a horn of salvation in the house of David his servant,
as announced by the mouths of his holy prophets from ancient times,
salvation FROM OUR ENEMIES and FROM THE HAND OF ALL WHO HATE US;
to show mercy to our parents, and to remember their holy covenant,
the oath he made to our father Abraham:
grant us that, delivered from the hand of our enemies, we serve him without fear
in holiness and justice before Him, all our days.
And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go BEFORE THE LORD TO PREPARE HIS WAYS;
to give his people the knowledge of salvation by the forgiveness of their sins,
by the tender mercy of our God, with which the Dawn will visit us from above,
TO GIVE LIGHT TO THOSE WHO LIVE IN DARKNESS AND IN THE SHADOW OF DEATH, to guide our feet on the path of peace.
And the child grew and was strengthened in spirit; and he lived in deserted places until the day he appeared to Israel in public.
