And after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others, whom he sent two by two before him to every city and place where he was to go.
And he said to them: The harvest is indeed great, but the workers few; therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
Go, behold, I send you as lambs among wolves.
Do not bring a bag, saddlebag or shoes; and greet no one on the way.
In any house you enter, first say: Peace be to this house.
And if there is any son of peace there, your peace will rest on him; and if not, it will come back to you.
And stay in that same house, eating and drinking what they give you; because the worker is worthy of his salary. Do not go from house to house.
And in any city where you enter and receive you, eat what is set before you,
and heal the sick that are in it and tell them: the kingdom of God has drawn near to you.
But in any city where you enter and you are not received, go out through its streets and say:
Even the dust of your city that has stuck to our feet we shake against you; But know this, that the kingdom of heaven has drawn near to you.
And I tell you that in that day it will be more tolerable for those of Sodom than for that city.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida !, because if the wonders that had been done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, long ago, sitting on sackcloth and ashes, they would have repented.
Therefore, in the judgment it will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, that up to the heavens you are raised, even to Hades you will be lowered.
He who hears you hears me; and he who rejects you rejects me; and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me.
And the seventy returned with joy, saying: Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!
And he said to them: I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning.
Behold, I give you power to trample on serpents and scorpions, and overcome all the strength of the enemy, and nothing will harm you.
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.
At that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the spirit and said: I praise you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you hid these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to the little ones. Yes, Father, because that is how you liked it.
All things have been delivered to me by my Father; and nobody knows who the Son is but the Father, nor who is the Father but the Son and who the Son wants to reveal.
And turning to the disciples, he said to them apart: Blessed are the eyes that see what you see,
for I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, and did not see it; and hear what you hear, and they did not hear it.
And behold, an interpreter of the law arose and said, to tempt him: Master, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
And he said to him: What is written in the law? How do you read
And he, answering, said: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.
And he said to him: You have answered well; do this and you will live.
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus: And who is my neighbor?
And Jesus answering said, A man came down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell into the hands of thieves, who stripped him; And wounding him, they left, leaving him half dead.
And it came to pass that a priest went down that road, and when he saw him, passed by.
And likewise a Levite, coming near that place, when he saw him, passed by.
But a Samaritan who was on his way came close to him and, seeing him, was moved to mercy;
And approaching, he bandaged their wounds, pouring oil and wine on them; And putting him on his own mount, he took him to the inn and cared for him.
And on another day, when he left, he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, and said: Take care of me; and everything you spend more, I will pay you when I return.
Which of these three, then, do you think was the neighbor of the one who fell into the hands of thieves?
And he said: He who had mercy on him. Then Jesus said to him: Go and do the same.
And it came to pass, as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village; and a woman named Marta met him at his home.
And this one had a sister named Mary, the one who, sitting at the feet of Jesus, heard his word.
But Marta was concerned with many chores; And approaching, he said: Lord, don't you care that my sister lets me serve alone? So tell him to help me.
But Jesus answered and said to her: Marta, Marta, you are busy and troubled with many things.
But only one thing is necessary; and Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken from her.