Then the whole multitude of them got up, and led him to Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying: We have found this man perverting the nation and forbidding to pay tribute to Caesar, saying that he is the Christ, a king.
Then Pilate asked him, saying: Are you the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said: You say so.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and to the people: I find no fault in this man.
But they were stubborn, saying: It disturbs the people, teaching throughout Judea, starting from Galilee to here.
Then Pilate, hearing Galilee say, asked if the man was a Galilean.
Knowing that it belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he referred him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem in those days.
And Herod, when he saw Jesus, was very happy, because he had wanted to see him for a long time; Because I had heard many things about him and hoped that I would see him perform a miracle.
And I asked him with many words, but he answered nothing.
And the chief priests and scribes were there, accusing him with great vehemence.
Then Herod, with his soldiers, despised and mocked him, dressing him with a splendid cloak; And he sent Pilate again.
And Pilate and Herod became friends that same day, because before they were at enmity with each other.
Then Pilate, summoning the chief priests, and the officers, and the people,
He said to them: You have presented me as a man who leads the people astray; and behold, having questioned him before you, I have found no fault in this man for what you accuse him.
Neither did Herod, because I referred you to him; and behold, nothing worthy of death has been done.
So I will release him after I punish him.
And he needed to release a prisoner at each party.
But the whole crowd cried out for one, saying: Get out with that one, and let us Barabbas out!
(He had been thrown in jail for sedition in the city and for murder.)
And Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus.
But they cried out again, saying: Crucify him, crucify him!
And he said to them the third time: Well, what harm has this man done? I have found no guilt of death in him; So I will punish him and release him.
But they insisted loudly, asking that he be crucified. And the voices of them and the chief priests prevailed.
Then Pilate determined that what they asked for should be done.
And he released the one who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, whom they had asked for; and handed Jesus over to their will.
And when they took him away, they took a certain Simon of Cyrene, who was coming from the field, and they put the cross on him to carry after Jesus.
And a great multitude of the people followed him, and of women who wept and wailed for him.
But Jesus, turning towards them, said to them: Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children,
For behold, the days will come when they will say: Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that did not conceive and the breasts that did not nurse.
Then they will begin to say to the mountains: Fall on us, and to the hills: Cover us,
because if they do these things in the green tree, what will not be done in the dry?
And they also took with him two others, who were criminals, to be executed.
And when they reached the place called the Skull, they crucified him there, and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left.
And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, because they don't know what they are doing. And they divided their dresses among themselves, casting lots.
And the people were watching; and even the rulers mocked him along with them, saying: He saved others; save yourself, if this is the Messiah, God's chosen one.
The soldiers also mocked him, approaching him and offering him vinegar,
and saying: If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself.
And there was also on it a title written in Greek, and Latin and Hebrew letters: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the criminals who were hanged insulted him, saying: If you are the Christ, save yourself and us.
And the other answered and rebuked him, saying: Do you not even fear God, being in the same condemnation?
And we, in truth, justly suffer, because we receive what our deeds deserved; but this did no wrong.
And he said to Jesus: Remember me when you come into your kingdom.
Then Jesus said to him: Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise.
And when it was about the sixth hour, there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
And the sun darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in the middle.
Then Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said: Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said that, he sighed.
And when the centurion saw what had happened, he gave glory to God, saying: Truly this man was just.
And the whole crowd of those who were present at this show, seeing what had happened, turned, hitting their chests.
But all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee were looking at these things from afar.
And behold, there was a man named Joseph who was a member of the council, a good and just man
(who had not consented to the council or their deeds), from Arimathea, city of Judea, who also expected the kingdom of God;
He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And lowering him, he wrapped him in a sheet and put him in an open grave on a rock, in which no one had yet been laid.
And it was preparation day, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
And the women who had come with him from Galilee also followed him and saw the grave and how his body was laid.
And they returned and prepared aromatic spices and perfumes; and they rested on the Sabbath, according to the commandment.