And looking, Jesus saw the wealthy throwing their offerings into the treasure chest.
And he also saw a poor widow throwing two targets there.
Then he said: Truly I tell you, this poor widow threw more than everyone else.
Because all these, of what they left over they threw for the offerings of God; but she, from her poverty, gave all the sustenance she had.
And to some who spoke of the temple being adorned with beautiful stones and gifts, he said:
As for these things you see, days will come when there will be no stone left on stone that will not be destroyed.
And they asked him, saying, Master, when will this be? And what sign will there be when these things are about to happen?
He then said: See that you are not deceived, because many will come in my name, saying: I am; and: the time is near; therefore do not go after them.
But when you hear of wars and seditions, don't be scared; because it is necessary that these things happen first; but the end will not be immediately.
Then he said to them: Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom;
and there will be great earthquakes and, in various places, famines and pestilences; and there will be terrible things and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, turning you over to the synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake.
And this will be an occasion to bear witness.
Resolve, therefore, in your hearts not to think beforehand how you should respond;
For I will give you words and wisdom, which none of those who oppose you will be able to resist or contradict.
And you will be delivered even by your parents, and brothers, and relatives and friends; and they will kill some of you.
And you will be hated by all because of my name.
But not a hair on your head will perish.
With your patience you will win your souls.
And when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its destruction has come.
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains; and those who are in the midst of it, go away; and those who are in the fields, do not enter it.
Because these are days of revenge, so that all the things that are written are fulfilled.
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who breed in those days! For there will be great calamity on earth and wrath upon this people.
And they will fall by the sword and be carried captive to all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden under foot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Then there will be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and on earth there will be anguish of the nations and confusion before the roar of the sea and the waves;
men fainting because of fear and expectation of things to come on earth, because the powers of heaven will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to happen, look and raise your heads, because your redemption is near.
And he also told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
When you see that they are already sprouting, you understand that summer is already close.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this has happened.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
And look for you, that your hearts are not burdened with gluttony, and drunkenness and the worries of this life, and that day suddenly comes upon you;
for as a trap it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Watch, therefore, praying at all times that you are considered worthy to escape all these things that are to come, and to stand before the Son of Man.
And he taught by day in the temple; and at night, going out, he stayed in the mount called Olivos.
And all the people came to him in the morning to hear him in the temple.