And Jesus, filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the desert.
for forty days, and was tempted by the devil. And he did not eat anything in those days; and after these, he was hungry.
Then the devil said to him: If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread.
And Jesus answering him said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
And the devil took him to a high mountain and showed him in a moment all the kingdoms of the earth.
And the devil said to him: I will give you all this power and their glory, because it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I want;
because if you adore me, they will all be yours.
And Jesus answering said to him, Get away from me, Satan, for it is written: You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.
Then he took him to Jerusalem and put him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him: If you are the Son of God, jump down from here,
for it is written, He shall send his angels to guard you;
And they will carry you in their hands, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
And Jesus answering said to him, It is said, You shall not tempt the Lord your God.
And when the devil had finished all temptation, he turned away from him for a time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and his fame spread throughout the surrounding region,
and he taught in their synagogues and was glorified by all.
And he came to Nazareth, where he had been raised; and, according to his custom, on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and rose to read.
And the book of the prophet Isaiah was given to him; And having opened the scroll, he found the place where it was written:
The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to bring good news to the poor; He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and to give sight to the blind; to release the broken,
to preach the pleasant year of the Lord.
And rolling up the book, he gave it to the assistant and sat down; and everyone's eyes in the synagogue were fixed on him.
And he began to say to them: Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your ears.
And they all bore witness to him and were amazed at the words of grace that came out of his mouth, and said: Is not this the son of Joseph?
And he said to them: Without a doubt you will tell me this saying: Doctor, heal yourself; Of so many things that we have heard have been done in Capernaum, do also here in your land.
And he said: Truly I tell you, no prophet is accepted in his own land.
But in truth I tell you that there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when heaven was closed for three years and six months, and there was a great famine in all the earth;
but to none of them was Elijah sent, but to a widow in Sarepta of Sidon.
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, but none of them was cleansed, but Naaman the Syrian.
Then everyone in the synagogue was filled with anger upon hearing these things;
And getting up, they threw him out of the city and took him to the top of the mountain on which their city was built, to throw him down.
But he passed through their midst and left.
And he went down to Capernaum, the city of Galilee. And he taught them on the Sabbath days.
And they marveled at his doctrine, because his word was authoritative.
And there was in the synagogue a man who had an unclean demon spirit, who cried out with a loud voice,
saying: Leave us! What do you have with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying: Be quiet and come out of him! Then the demon, knocking him down in their midst, came out of him and did him no harm.
And there was amazement in all of them, and they spoke among themselves, saying: What word is this, that with authority and power commands the unclean spirits, and they go out?
And his fame spread everywhere in all parts of the region.
Then Jesus got up, left the synagogue, and entered Simon's house; and Simon's mother-in-law had a high fever, and they begged for her.
And leaning toward her, he rebuked the fever, and the fever left her; and immediately she got up and served them.
And at sunset, all those who were sick with various diseases brought them to him; and he, laying his hands on each of them, healed them.
And demons also came out of many, crying out and saying: You are the Son of God! But he rebuked them and would not let them speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.
And when it was day, he went out and went to a deserted place; and the people looked for him and, coming up to him, they stopped him so that he would not leave them.
But he said to them: It is necessary that I announce the gospel of the kingdom of God also to other cities, because for this I have been sent.
And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.