And on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they went to the tomb, carrying the aromatic spices that they had prepared, and some other women with them.
And they found the stone of the grave removed.
And when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass that, being they perplexed by this, behold, two men stood up beside them in shining garments;
and as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them: Why do you look for the living among the dead?
He is not here, but is risen; remember what he told you, when he was still in Galilee,
saying: It is necessary that the Son of Man be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and that he be crucified and rise again on the third day.
So they remembered his words,
And returning from the grave, they gave news of all these things to the eleven and to all the others.
And it was Mary Magdalene, and Juana, and Mary, the mother of James, and the rest with them, who said these things to the apostles.
But their words seemed madness to them, and they did not believe them.
But when Peter got up, he ran to the tomb and, when he looked inside, he saw only the canvases there; and went home, marveling at what had happened.
And behold, two of them were going the same day to a village called Emmaus, which was about sixty stadia from Jerusalem.
And they were talking to each other about all those things that had happened.
And it came to pass that, while they were talking to one another and asking each other, Jesus himself came and went with them together.
But their eyes were blurred, so that they would not know him.
And he said to them: What are these conversations that you have between you while you walk, being sad?
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said to him: Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem who has not known the things that have happened in these days?
Then he said to them: What things? And they said to him: Of Jesus the Nazarene, who was a male prophet, powerful in deed and in word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers handed him over to death and crucified him.
But we hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel; And now, in addition to all this, today is the third day since this has happened.
Although we have also been amazed by some women among us, those who went to the tomb early;
and when they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen the vision of angels, who told them that he lives.
And some of us went to the grave and found just as the women had said, but they did not see him.
Then he said to them: O foolish and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have said!
Was it not necessary that the Christ suffer these things and enter into his glory?
And beginning from Moses and following all the prophets, he declared to them in all the Scriptures what they said of him.
And they came to the village where they were going; and he pretended to go further.
But they insisted, saying: Stay with us, because it is getting late, and the day has already declined. Enter, then, to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he was sitting with them at the table, he took the bread, blessed it, and broke it and gave it to them.
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him; but he disappeared from her sight.
And they said to each other: Did not our hearts burn within us as he spoke to us on the road and when he opened the Scriptures to us?
And rising at that same hour, they returned to Jerusalem; And they found the eleven gathered and those who were with them,
who said: Truly the Lord is risen and has appeared to Simon.
Then they recounted the things that had happened to them on the road, and how they had recognized him when he broke the bread.
And while they were still talking about these things, Jesus stood in their midst and said: Peace to you.
Then they, frightened and frightened, thought they saw a spirit.
But he said to them: Why are you troubled and doubts arise in your hearts?
Look at my hands and my feet, for I am myself; feel and see, because a spirit does not have flesh or bones as you see I have.
And saying this, he showed them his hands and feet.
And even though they, with joy, did not believe it and were amazed, he said to them: Do you have something to eat here?
So they gave him part of a roasted fish and a honeycomb.
And he took it and ate in front of them.
And he said to them: These are the words that I spoke to you while still with you: that it was necessary for all the things that are written about me in the law of Moses, and in the prophets and in the psalms, to be fulfilled.
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures;
And he said to them: Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead on the third day;
and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
And you are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I will send my Father's promise upon you; but you remain in the city of Jerusalem until you are endowed with power from on high.
And he led them out to Bethany and, raising his hands, blessed them.
And it came to pass that, while he blessed them, he turned away from them and was carried up into heaven.
And they, having worshiped him, returned to Jerusalem with great joy;
and they were always in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.