In this, having gathered a multitude of thousands and thousands, so much that they trampled each other, he began to say first to his disciples: "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
Because there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, nor hidden that is not to be known.
Rather, what they have said in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what they have spoken in the ear in the rooms will be trumpeted on the rooftops.
"And I say to you, my friends: Do not fear those who kill the body and then have nothing worse to do.
But I will teach you who to fear: fear the one who, after having killed, has the power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear this.
Are not five little birds sold for two coins? For not one of them is forgotten before God.
But even the hairs on your head are all numbered. Do not fear; you are worth more than many little birds.
"I tell you, whoever confesses me before men, the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God;
But whoever denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
"When you are taken to synagogues and magistrates and authorities, do not be concerned with how or what they will respond, or what they will say.
Because the Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what to say. "
One of the crowd said to him, "Master, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."
And he said to him, "Man, who made me judge or delivery man over you?"
And he said to them: —Look, beware of all greed, because one's life does not consist in the abundance of the goods that one possesses.
Then he told them a parable, saying: —The lands of a rich man had produced much.
And he reasoned within himself saying: "What will I do? Because I no longer have where to gather my products."
Then he said, "This I will do! I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones. There I will gather all my grain and my goods,
and I will say to myself: Many assets you have stored for many years. Rest, eat, drink, rejoice. "
But God said to him: "Fool! Tonight they come to ask for your life; and what have you provided, for whom will it be?"
So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.
He said to his disciples, "Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what are you going to eat; nor for their body, what should they wear.
Life is more than food and the body is more than clothing.
Consider the crows, which neither sow nor reap nor have warehouses nor barns, and God feeds them. How much better are you than the birds!
Who among you will be able to add a day to your life by working hard?
Well, if they cannot do what is less, why are they striving for the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither work nor spin; And I tell you that not even Solomon, in all his glory, was dressed as one of them.
If God dresses the grass that is in the field today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he do for you, you of little faith!
"You therefore do not seek what to eat or what to drink, nor be anxious.
Because all these things the people of the world seek, but their Father knows that they need these things.
Rather, seek your kingdom, and these things will be added to you.
Fear not, little flock, for your Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom.
"Sell your goods and give offerings of mercy. Make yourself bags that do not age; an inexhaustible treasure in the heavens where the thief does not approach and the moth does not destroy.
Because where your treasure is, there will also be your heart.
"Let your loins be girded and your lamps lit.
And be like the servants who wait for their master when he is to return from weddings so that they will open to him the moment he arrives and calls.
Blessed are those servants whom the Lord finds watching when he arrives. Truly I tell you, he will gird himself and make them sit at the table and, coming, he will serve them.
Even if he comes at midnight, and even if he comes at dawn, if he finds them like this, blessed are those servants!
"Know that if the homeowner had known what time the thief was to come, he would not have been allowed to break into his home.
You too be prepared, because at the hour you do not think the Son of Man will come.
Then Peter said to him, "Lord, are you telling this parable for us, or for all of us too?"
And the Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and prudent steward whom the Lord will put over his household to give them their rations in due time?"
Blessed will be that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly I tell you, he will put it on all his possessions.
But if that servant says in his heart: "My lord is late to come" and begins to beat the servants and the servants, and eat and drink and get drunk,
The lord of that servant will come in the day that he does not expect and at the hour that he does not know, and he will punish him severely and will do his part with the unbelievers.
Because that servant who understood the will of his master and did not prepare himself or did according to his will, will receive many lashes.
But he who did not understand, although he did things worthy of scourging, will receive few lashes. For from everyone to whom much has been given, much will be demanded of him; And from the one they trusted a lot, more will be asked.
"I have come to put fire on the ground. And how I wish it was already on!
I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
Do you think I have come to give peace on earth? I say no, but to cause division!
Because, from now on, five in a house will be divided: three against two and two against three.
The father will be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
He also said to the crowds: —When they see the cloud coming out of the west, then they say: "It is going to rain." And so it happens.
When the south wind blows, they say, "It will be hot." And it does.
You hypocrites! They know how to interpret the aspect of heaven and earth, and how can they not interpret this time?
"Why don't you judge for yourself what is fair?
Well, when you go to the magistrate with your adversary, diligently try to make arrangements with him on the road, lest you drag the judge and the judge hand you over to the police and the police put you in jail.
I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid every last penny.