And it came to pass that as the multitude gathered upon Him to hear the word of God, Jesus being by the lake of Genesaret,
He saw two boats standing on the shore of the lake, but the fishermen had gotten out of them and washed the nets.
Getting into one of the boats, which belonged to Simon, he asked to be separated from the land a little; and sitting down, he taught the crowds from the boat.
When he finished speaking, he said to Simon: Go to the deepest part and cast your nets to fish.
Simon answered and said: Master, we have been working all night and we have not caught anything, but because you ask, I will cast the nets.
And when they did, they locked up a large number of fish, so that their nets broke;
they then signaled to their companions who were in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, in such a way that they sank.
Seeing this, Simon Peter fell at the feet of Jesus, saying: Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man!
Because the astonishment had seized him and all his companions, by the round-up of fish they had made;
The same thing happened to James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon: Fear not; from now on you will be a fisher of men.
And after bringing the boats ashore, leaving everything behind, they followed him.
And it came to pass that while Jesus was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy; and when she saw Jesus, she fell on his face and asked him, saying: Lord, if you want, you can clean me.
Jesus stretched out his hand and touched it, saying: I want to; Be clean. And instantly the leprosy left him.
And He commanded her not to tell anyone. But go on, "he said," show yourself to the priest and give an offering for your purification as Moses ordered, to serve as a testimony.
And his fame spread more and more, and large crowds gathered to hear him and be healed of his illnesses.
But often He would go to solitary places and pray.
And one day that He was teaching, there were sitting there some Pharisees and teachers of the law who had come from all the villages of Galilee and Judea, and from Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was with Him to heal.
And behold, some men brought on a stretcher a man who was paralyzed; and they tried to put it in and put it in front of Jesus.
And finding no way to get him in because of the crowd, they went up to the roof and brought him down with the stretcher through the roof, putting him in the middle, in front of Jesus.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said: Man, your sins are forgiven.
Then the scribes and Pharisees began to speak, saying: Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but only God?
Knowing his thoughts, Jesus answered and said to them: Why do you run in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up and walk"?
Well, so that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he said to the paralytic): To you I say: Get up, take your mat and go home.
And immediately he got up before them, took the stretcher on which he had been lying, and went home glorifying God.
And amazement seized everyone and they glorified God; and they were filled with fear, saying: Today we have seen extraordinary things.
After this, Jesus went out and noticed a tax collector named Levi, sitting in the tax office, and said to him: Follow me.
And he, leaving everything, got up and followed him.
And Levi offered him a great banquet in his house; and there was a large group of tax collectors and others sitting at the table with them.
And the Pharisees and their scribes complained to Jesus' disciples, saying: Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
Jesus answered and said to them: The healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick.
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
And they said to him: John's disciples fast frequently and pray; Those of the Pharisees also do the same, but yours eat and drink.
Then Jesus said to them: Can you make the groom's companions fast while the groom is with them?
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, then they will fast in those days.
He also told them a parable: No one cuts a piece of a new dress and puts it on an old dress; because then the new one will break, and the piece of the new one will not harmonize with the old one.
And no one pours new wine into old wineskins, because then new wine will break the wineskins and spill them, and the wineskins will be lost,
but the new wine must be poured into new wineskins.
And nobody, after drinking old wine, wants new wine, because they say: "The old is better."