And in the fifteenth year of the empire of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Iturea and of the province of Traconite, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilinia,
As Annas and Caiaphas were high priests, the word of God came to John the son of Zacharias in the desert.
And he went throughout the surrounding Jordan region preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins;
as it is written in the book of the words of the prophet Isaiah, which says: Voice of the one crying out in the desert: Prepare the way of the Lord, straighten his paths.
Every valley will be filled, and every hill and hill will be lowered; and crooked roads will be made straight, and rough roads smooth;
and all flesh will see the salvation of God.
And he said to the multitudes that were going out to be baptized by him: O generation of vipers! Who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance and do not begin to say within yourselves: We have Abraham for father; because I tell you that God can, even from these stones, raise children to Abraham.
And now the ax is also placed at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
And people asked him, saying: Well, what shall we do?
And answering, he said to them: He who has two robes, give to him who has not; and the one who has to eat, do the same.
And some publicans also came to be baptized and said to him: Master, what shall we do?
And he said to them: Demand no more than what you are commanded.
And some soldiers also asked him, saying: And we, what shall we do? And he said to them: Do not extort anyone or slander, and be content with your wages.
And with the people on the lookout, everyone in their hearts wondered if John was the Christ.
John answered, saying to all: I indeed baptize you in water; but one more powerful than me comes, from whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his footwear; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
His winnower is in his hand, and he will cleanse his threshing floor, and he will gather the wheat in his storehouse and burn the straw in a fire that will never be quenched.
And with many other exhortations he announced the good news to the people.
Then Herod, the Tetrarch, being rebuked by him because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evil that Herod had done,
He also added, over all of them, this: he locked Juan in prison.
And it came to pass that, when all the people were baptized, Jesus also was baptized; and as I prayed the sky opened up,
and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove, and a voice came from heaven saying: You are my Beloved Son, in you I am well pleased.
And Jesus himself was about thirty years old, believed to be the son of Joseph the son of Eli,
the son of Matat, the son of Levi, the son of Melqui, the son of Jana, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Nagai,
son of Maat, son of Mattathias, son of Semei, son of Joseph, son of Judah,
the son of Joana, the son of Resa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Salatiel, the son of Neri,
son of Melqui, son of Adi, son of Cosam, son of Elmodam, son of Er,
the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matat,
the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of Eliakim,
son of Melea, son of Mainán, son of Matata, son of Natán,
son of David, son of Jesse, son of Obed, son of Boaz, son of Salmon, son of Naason,
the son of Amminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Esrom, the son of Pharaoh, the son of Judah,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nacor,
the son of Serug, the son of Ragau, the son of Peleg, the son of Heber, the son of Sala,
the son of Cainan, the son of Arfaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
son of Methuselah, son of Enoch, son of Jared, son of Mahalaleel, son of Cainan,
son of Enos, son of Seth, son of Adam, son of God.