And Jesus said to his disciples: It is inevitable that stumbles come, but woe to him through whom they come!
It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea than to trip one of these little ones.
Be careful! If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
And if he sins against you seven times a day, and comes back to you seven times, saying, "I repent," forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord: Increase our faith!
Then the Lord said: If you had faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this sycamore: "Root out and plant yourself in the sea." And I would obey you.
Which of you has a servant plowing or herding sheep, and when he returns from the field, says to him, "Come at once and sit down to eat"?
Wouldn't he rather say to her: "Prepare me something for dinner, and dress appropriately, and serve me until I have eaten and drunk; and then you will eat and drink yourself"?
Does he thank the servant for doing what he was told to do?
So you too, when you have done all that you have been commanded, say, "We are useless servants; we have done only what we should have done."
And it came to pass that as he was on his way to Jerusalem, he passed between Samaria and Galilee,
and upon entering a certain village, ten leprous men met him, who stood at a distance,
And they raised their voices, saying: Jesus, Master! Have mercy on us!
When He saw them, He said to them: Go and show yourselves to the priests. And it happened that while they were going, they were clean.
Then one of them, seeing that he had been healed, turned, glorifying God with a loud voice.
And he fell on his face at the feet of Jesus, giving him thanks; and this was a Samaritan.
Jesus answered and said: Were not ten those who were cleansed? And the other nine, where are they?
Was there not one who returned to give glory to God, except this stranger?
And he said to him: Arise and go; Your faith has healed you.
When the Pharisees asked him when the kingdom of God would come, Jesus answered them, and said: The kingdom of God does not come with visible signs,
nor will they say, "Look, here it is!" or: "There it is!" For behold, the kingdom of God is among you.
And he said to the disciples: Days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
And they will say to you: "Look there! Look here!" Don't go or run after them.
For as lightning flashes from one end of heaven to the other end of heaven when it flashes, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
But first it is necessary that He suffer a lot and be rejected by this generation.
Just as it happened in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the Son of Man.
They ate, drank, married, and married, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
It was the same thing that happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
but the day Lot left Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
The same will happen the day the Son of Man is revealed.
On that day, whoever is on the roof and has his goods at home, do not go down to take them; and likewise, whoever is in the field does not go back.
Remember Lot's wife.
Everyone who tries to preserve his life will lose it; and whoever loses it will keep it.
I tell you that on that night there will be two in one bed; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding in the same place; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
And they answered and said to him, "Where, Lord? And He said to them: Where the body is, there the vultures will also gather.