And there came a Sabbath day, having entered the house of a chief of the Pharisees to eat bread, they stalked him.
And behold, a man with dropsy was before him.
And Jesus answering spoke to the interpreters of the law and to the Pharisees, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?
But they were silent. Then he, taking him, healed him and dismissed him.
And answering them he said, Which of you, if his ass or his ox falls into a well, does he not immediately remove it even on the Sabbath day?
And they couldn't reply to these things.
And observing how the guests chose the first seats at the table, he related a parable, saying:
When you are invited by someone to a wedding, you do not feel in the first place, lest someone more honorable than you are invited by him,
And when he who invited you and him came, he said to you: Give place to this one; and then you have to be ashamed to take last place.
But when you are invited, go and sit in the last place, so that when the one who invited you comes, he will tell you: Friend, go higher up; then you will have glory before those who sit with you at the table.
For anyone who exalts himself will be humbled; and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
And he also said to the one who had invited him: When you have lunch or dinner, do not call your friends, your brothers, your relatives or your wealthy neighbors, lest they, in turn, invite you again, and be rewarded.
But when you feast, call the poor, the one-armed, the lame, and the blind;
and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you; but you will be rewarded in the resurrection of the righteous.
And when one of those who were sitting with him at the table heard this, he said: Blessed is he who eats bread in the kingdom of God!
Then Jesus said to him: A man made a great dinner and invited many.
And at supper he sent his servant to say to the guests, Come, for everything is ready.
But all together they began to apologize. The first said: I have bought a farm and I need to go see it; I beg your pardon.
And the other said: I have bought five yoke of oxen and I am going to test them; I beg your pardon.
And the other said: I have just got married and therefore I cannot go.
And the servant returned and made these things known to his master. Then, angry the father of the family, said to his servant: Go quickly through the squares and through the streets of the city, and bring here the poor, the handicapped, and the lame and the blind.
And the servant said: Lord, it has been done as you commanded and there is still room.
And the lord said to the servant: Go down the roads and the fences, and compel them to enter so that my house may be full.
Well I tell you that none of those men who were invited will like my dinner.
And many people went with him; and turning, he said to them:
If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
And he who does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
Because who among you, wanting to build a tower, doesn't sit down first and calculate the expenses, to see if he has what he needs to finish it?
Lest after he has laid the foundation, and can't finish it, everyone who sees him starts making fun of him,
saying: This man began to build and could not finish.
Or what king, having to go to war against another king, does not sit first and consider whether he can go out with ten thousand to meet the one who comes against him with twenty thousand?
Otherwise, when the other is still far away, he sends him an embassy and asks for peace conditions.
So any one of you who doesn't give up all the things he owns cannot be my disciple.
Good is the salt; but if the salt loses its flavor, with what will it be seasoned?
Neither for the earth nor for the manure is good; they throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.