And all the publicans and sinners came to Jesus to hear him.
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
And he related this parable to them, saying:
What man among you, if he has a hundred sheep and one of them is lost, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and go after the one that was lost, until he finds it?
And finding it, he puts it on his shoulders joyfully;
and when he gets home, he gathers friends and neighbors together, saying: Rejoice with me, because I have found my lost sheep.
I tell you that there will be more joy in heaven for a sinner who repents than for the ninety-nine righteous who do not need repentance.
Or what woman who has ten drachmas, if she loses a drachma, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and search diligently until she finds it?
And when he finds it, he gathers the friends and the neighbors, saying: Rejoice with me, because I have found the drachma that I had lost.
So I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over a sinner who repents.
He also said: A man had two children,
and the least of them said to his father: Father, give me my share of the property; and distributed the goods to them.
And not many days later, putting it all together, the youngest son went away to a remote province; and there he wasted his property living riotously.
And when everything had been wasted, a great famine came in that province and began to be in need.
So he went and approached one of the citizens of that land, the one who sent him to his farm to feed pigs.
And he wanted to fill his belly with the carob beans that the pigs ate, but nobody gave them.
And returning to himself, he said: How many day laborers in my father's house have plenty of bread, and here I am starving!
I will get up and go to my father, and I will say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you;
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your day laborers.
So he got up and went to his father. And when he was still far away, his father saw him and was moved to mercy, and he ran, and fell on his neck and kissed him.
And the son said to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son.
But the father said to his servants: Take out the best clothes and clothe him; and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet.
And bring the fat calf and kill it, and let's eat and party,
because this, my son, was dead and has revived; it was lost and has been found. And they began to rejoice.
And her eldest son was in the field, and when he came and came near the house, he heard the music and the dances;
and calling one of the servants, he asked him what it was.
And the servant said to him: Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fat calf for having received him safe and sound.
And he was angry, and would not go. So his father came out and begged him to come in.
But he, answering, said to the father: Here I have been serving you for so many years, never having disobeyed you, and you have never given me a kid to rejoice with my friends.
But when this one came, your son, who has consumed your goods with harlots, you have killed for him the fat calf.
He then said to him: Son, you are always with me, and all my things are yours.
But it was necessary to celebrate and rejoice, because this, your brother, was dead and has revived; it was lost and has been found.