He said to his disciples, "It is impossible that there should be no stumbling blocks; but, woe to him who causes them!
It would be better for him if a millstone were tied around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than to trip one of these little ones.
"Look for yourselves: if your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
If seven times a day he sins against you, and seven times a day he comes back to you saying: "I repent", forgive him.
The apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith.
Then the Lord said: —If they had faith like a mustard seed, they would say to this sycamore: "Root yourself and be planted in the sea!" and the tree would obey them. The servant's duty
"And which one of you, having a servant who plows or feeds, when he returns from the field will say to him:" Come in, sit at the table "?
Rather, it will say, "Prepare for me to dine. Stick around and serve me until I have eaten and drunk. After that, eat and drink."
Do you thank the servant for doing what he was told to do?
So also you, when you have done everything that has been commanded you, say: "We are useless servants because we only did what we should do."
It came to pass that, going to Jerusalem, he passed through Samaria and Galilee.
When he entered a village, ten leprous men met him who stood at a distance
and they raised their voices saying: —Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
When he saw them, he said to them, "Go, show yourselves to the priests." It happened that, while they were going, they were cleaned.
Then one of them, seeing that he had been healed, returned glorifying God with a loud voice.
And he fell on his face at the feet of Jesus thanking him. And this was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answering said: —Are not ten those who were cleansed? And the nine, where are they?
Was there no one to return and give glory to God, but this stranger?
And he said to him: "Get up, go away; your faith has saved you.
And when the Pharisees asked him when the kingdom of God was to come, he answered them saying: —The kingdom of God will not come with a warning.
They won't say, "Look, here it is!" or "There it is!" Because the kingdom of God is in your midst.
He said to his disciples: —The time will come when they will want to see one of the days of the Son of Man and they will not see it.
They will tell you, "Look, here it is!" or "Look, there it is!" But don't go or follow them.
For as the lightning that shines illuminates the sky from one extreme to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
But first it is necessary that he suffer a lot and be rejected by this generation.
"As it happened in the days of Noah, so also it will be in the days of the Son of Man:
They ate and drank; They were married and married, until the day that Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all.
"Likewise, it will also be as it happened in the days of Lot: They ate, drank, bought, sold, planted and built;
but the day Lot left Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
So it will be on the day the Son of Man is revealed.
"On that day, he who is on the roof and his things are in the house does not go down to take them. Likewise, he who is in the field does not go back.
Remember Lot's wife.
Anyone who tries to save his life will lose it; and anyone who loses it will keep it.
I tell you that on that night there will be two in one bed; one will be taken and the other will be left.
, 36 Two women will be grinding together; one will be taken and the other left.
, 36 Two women will be grinding together; one will be taken and the other left.
Responding they asked him: "Where, Lord?" And he said, "Wherever the carcass is, the vultures will gather there."