And it came to pass that one Sabbath day Jesus was passing through some fields, and his disciples were plucking and eating ears of corn, rubbing them in their hands.
But some of the Pharisees said: Why do you do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?
Jesus answered them, "Have you not even read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him;
How did he enter the house of God, and take and eat the consecrated loaves, that it is not lawful for anyone to eat but only the priests, and he also gave to his companions?
And he said to them: The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
And on another Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught; And there was a man with a dry right hand.
And the scribes and Pharisees watched Jesus closely to see that he was healed on the Sabbath, to find out what to accuse him of.
But He knew what they were thinking, and said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and come here. And he, getting up, approached him.
Then Jesus said to them: I ask you: is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil; save a life or destroy it?
And after looking at everyone around him, he said to the man: Extend your hand. And he did so, and his hand was healed.
But they were filled with anger, and they discussed among themselves what they could do to Jesus.
In those days He went to the mountain to pray, and spent the whole night in prayer to God.
When daylight came, he called his disciples and chose twelve of them, whom he also gave the name of apostles:
Simon, whom Peter also called, and Andrew his brother; Jacobo and Juan; Felipe and Bartolomé;
Mateo and Tomás; James, son of Alphaeus, and Simon, whom they called the Zealot;
Judas, son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
He went down with them and stopped in a flat place; and there was a great multitude of his disciples, and a great multitude of the people, of all Judea, of Jerusalem, and of the coastal region of Tire and Sidon,
that they had come to hear him and to be healed of his diseases; and those who were tormented by unclean spirits were cured.
And the whole crowd tried to touch him, because from Him came a power that healed everyone.
Turning his eyes to his disciples, he said: Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Blessed are you when men hate you, when they separate you from themselves, shower you with insults and reject your name as evil because of the Son of Man.
Rejoice in that day and jump for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for your parents treated the prophets in the same way.
But woe to you rich people, because you are already receiving all your comfort.
Woe to you who are now satisfied, because you will be hungry. Woe to you who are laughing now !, because you will regret and cry.
Woe to you, when all men speak well of you! For the same way their parents treated false prophets.
But to you who hear, I say: love your enemies; do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you; pray for those who revile you.
To the one who strikes you on the cheek, also present the other; And whoever takes your cloak from you, do not deny the robe either.
To everyone who asks you, give, and to the one who takes away what is yours, do not claim it.
And just as you want men to do to you, do to them the same way.
If you love those who love you, what credit do you have? Because sinners also love those who love them.
If you do good to those who do good to you, what merit do you have? Because sinners also do the same.
If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit do you have? Sinners also lend to sinners to receive the same amount from them.
Rather, love your enemies, and do well, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; because He is kind to the ungrateful and wicked.
Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Give, and it will be given to you; good measure, tight, shaken and overflowing, they will empty into your lap. Because with the measurement with which you measure, it will be measured again.
He also told them a parable: Can a blind man guide another blind man? Will they not both fall into a hole?
A disciple is not above his teacher; but every disciple, after he has prepared himself well, will be like his teacher.
And why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, and you do not realize the beam that is in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, "Brother, let me take the speck out of your eye," when you yourself don't see the beam in your eye? Hypocrite! First remove the beam from your eye and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother's eye.
Because there is no good tree that produces bad fruit, nor conversely, bad tree that produces good fruit.
For each tree by its fruit is known. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they harvest grapes from a bush.
The good man, from the good treasure of his heart, brings out what is good; and the bad man, out of the bad treasure, brings out what is bad; for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
And why do you call me "Lord, Lord" and do not do what I say?
Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and puts them into practice, I will show you who he is like:
He is like a man who, in building a house, dug deep and laid a foundation in the rock; and when a flood came, the torrent hit the house hard, but could not move it because it had been well built.
But he who has heard and has done nothing is like a man who built a house on the ground without laying a foundation; and the torrent hit with force and instantly it collapsed, and the ruin of that house was great.
