And it came to pass, as Jesus passed through the fields on a Sabbath, the second after the first, his disciples plucked ears of corn and, rubbing them with their hands, ate them.
And some of the Pharisees said to them, Why do you do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath days?
And Jesus answering said to them, Have you not even read this, what David did when he and those who were with him were hungry;
How did he enter the house of God and take the showbread, which is not lawful to eat, but only to the priests, and he ate, and gave also to those who were with him?
And he said to them: The Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath.
And it happened also on another Sabbath that he entered the synagogue and taught; And there was a man who had a dry right hand.
And the scribes and the Pharisees stalked him to see if he would heal on the Sabbath, to find out what to accuse him of.
But he, who knew their thoughts, said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and stand in the middle. And he, getting up, stood up.
Then Jesus said to them: I will ask you one thing: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? Save life or take it away?
And, looking around them all, he said to the man: Extend your hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored.
And they were filled with anger and were talking to each other about what they could do against Jesus.
And it happened in those days that he went to the mountain to pray, and spent the night praying to God.
And when it was daytime, he called his disciples and chose twelve of them, whom he also called apostles:
Simon, whom Peter also called, and his brother Andrew, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Mateo and Tomás, Jacobo son of Alfeo and Simón called Zelote,
Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the traitor.
And he went down with them and stood in a flat place, in the company of his disciples and a great multitude of the people from all over Judea, and from Jerusalem and from the coast of Tire and Sidon, who had come to hear him and to be healed of their diseases;
and those who had been tormented by unclean spirits were healed.
And all the people tried to touch him, because power came from him and healed everyone.
And raising his eyes to his disciples, he said: Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Blessed will you be when men hate you, and when they separate you from themselves, and revile and reject your name as evil because of the Son of Man.
Rejoice in that day and be glad, for behold, your reward is great in heaven; because that's how their parents did to the prophets.
But, woe to you, rich ones, because you already have your comfort.
Woe to you who are satisfied, because you will be hungry. Woe to you who now laugh !, because you will regret and cry.
Woe to you, when all men speak well of you! Because that is what their parents did with the false prophets.
But to you who hear, I say: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you and pray for those who slander you.
And to the one who hits you on the cheek, also present the other; And whoever takes your cloak from you, do not deny even your tunic.
And to anyone who asks you, give it; And whoever takes what is yours, do not claim it.
And just as you want men to do to you, so too do you to them.
Because if you love those who love you, what merit do you have? For sinners also love those who love them.
And if you do good to those who do good to you, what merit do you have ?, because sinners also do the same.
And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what merit do you have? For sinners also lend to sinners, to receive the same.
So love your enemies, and do good and lend, expecting nothing of it; and your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High, because he is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked.
So be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Give, and it will be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together and overflowing will be given to you in your lap, because with the same measure with which you measure, it will be measured again.
And he told them a parable: Can a blind man guide another blind man? Wont both fall into the hole?
The disciple is not superior to his teacher; but everyone who is perfected will be like his teacher.
Why do you look at the straw that is in your brother's eye and do not consider the beam that is in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother: Brother, let me take out the straw that is in your eye, not looking at the beam that is in your eye? You hypocrite! First remove the beam from your own eye and then you will see well to remove the straw that is in your brother's eye.
For it is not a good tree that bears bad fruit; nor a bad tree that bears good fruit.
Because each tree is known for its fruit, since no figs are picked from the hawthorns, nor are grapes harvested from the brambles.
The good man, from the good treasure of his heart, brings good; and the evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, brings forth evil; Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
Why do you call me: Lord, Lord, and do not do what I say?
Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will teach you who is similar:
Similar is the man who, in building a house, dug and delved and laid the foundation on the rock; and when a flood came, the river hit the house with force, but it could not move it, because it was founded on the rock.
But he who heard them and did not obey them is like the man who built his house on the ground, without foundation; The river struck against it with impetus, and then it fell, and the ruin of that house was great.