It came to pass that as the crowds crowded upon him and listened to the word of God, Jesus stood by the lake of Genesaret
and he saw two boats that were on the shore of the lake. The fishermen had come out of them and were washing their nets.
As he entered one of the boats, which belonged to Simon, he asked him to remove it from land a little. Then he sat down and taught the crowds from the boat.
When he had finished speaking to them, he said to Simon, "Go out to sea, and cast your nets to fish."
Simon answered him and said: "Master, we have worked hard all night and we have not caught anything." But by your word I will cast the net.
When they did, they caught a large number of fish and their nets broke.
They signaled to their companions who were in the other boat to come and help them. They came and filled both boats so that they sank.
And Simon Peter, seeing him, fell to his knees before Jesus exclaiming: "Get away from me, Lord, because I am a sinful man!
Because of the fishing they had accomplished, fear seized Pedro and all those who were with him,
and in the same way of Jacobo and Juan, children of Zebedeo, who were partners of Simón. Then Jesus said to Simon, "Do not be afraid; from now on you will be fishing men.
After taking the boats ashore, they left everything and followed him.
It came to pass, while Jesus was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy. He saw Jesus and, falling down on his face, he begged him saying: —Lord, if you want, you can clean me.
Then she reached out and touched him saying, "I want to." Be clean! Instantly the leprosy disappeared from him.
And Jesus commanded him not to tell anyone; rather, he said to him, "Go and show yourself to the priest and give for your purification the offering that Moses sent, as a testimony to them."
However, his fame spread more and more and many crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of his illnesses.
But he would go to the desert places and pray.
And it came to pass in one of those days that Jesus was teaching, and there were sitting there some Pharisees and teachers of the law who had come from all the villages of Galilee, Judea and Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was with him to heal.
And behold, some men were bringing a man who was paralyzed on a stretcher, and they were trying to take him inside and put him before Jesus.
When they could not find how to do it because of the crowd, they went up on top of the house and, along with the stretcher, took him down the middle roof in front of Jesus.
Seeing their faith, Jesus said to him, "Man, your sins are forgiven.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason saying: "Who is this who speaks blasphemies?" Who can forgive sins but only God?
But Jesus, realizing their reasoning, answered and said: —What do you reason in your hearts?
It's easier? To say, "Your sins are forgiven you," or to say, "Get up and walk"?
But so that they know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, "he said to the paralytic," I tell you: get up, take your mat and go home!
Immediately he rose in their presence, took the stretcher on which he was lying, and went home glorifying God.
Amazement seized everyone, and they glorified God. They were filled with fear and said: —Today we have seen wonders!
After this, Jesus came out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting in the place of public tributes. And he said: "Follow me!"
He, leaving everything, got up and followed him.
Then Levi made a great feast for him in his house, and there were a great number of publicans and others who were at the table with them.
The Pharisees and scribes murmured against his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "The healthy do not need a doctor but those who are sick.
I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.
Then they said to him, "John's disciples fast many times and pray, just like the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink."
Jesus said to them, "Can you make the wedding couple fast while the bridegroom is with them?"
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them. Then in those days they will fast.
He also told them a parable: —No one cuts a patch on a new dress to mend an old dress. Otherwise, the new dress breaks and the patch taken from the new one does not harmonize with the old.
Nor does anyone pour new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine will break the wineskins, the wine will spill, and the wineskins will be lost.
But the new wine must be poured into new wineskins.
And no one who drinks the aged wants the new one because he says: "The aged is the best".