Since many have already tried to put in order the history of things that have been very true among us,
just as we were taught by those who from the beginning saw it with their eyes and were ministers of the word,
It seemed to me, too, after having diligently investigated all things from the beginning, to write them down in order, oh most excellent Theophilus,
so that you know well the truth of the things in which you have been taught.
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zacharias, from the group of Abijah; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron and her name was Elizabeth.
And both were righteous before God and walked blameless in all the Lord's commandments and statutes.
But they had no children, because Elizabeth was sterile, and they were both elderly.
And it came to pass, that Zacharias exercised the priesthood before God, according to the order of his group,
According to the custom of the priesthood, it was his lot to offer the incense when entering the temple of the Lord.
And the whole crowd of the people was outside, praying at the incense hour.
Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him standing to the right of the altar of incense.
And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.
But the angel said to him, “Don't be afraid, Zechariah, because your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will give you a son, and you will call his name John.
And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,
because it will be great before the Lord. And he shall not drink wine or cider, and shall be filled with the Holy Ghost even from his mother's womb.
And he will bring back many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God.
For he will go before him with the spirit and power of Elijah, to cause the hearts of fathers to turn their children, and the rebels to the prudence of the just, to prepare for the Lord a well-disposed people.
And Zacharias said to the angel, How will I know this? Because I am old, and my wife is old.
And the angel answering said to him: I am Gabriel, that I am before God; and I have been sent to speak to you and to give you this good news.
And behold, you will be silent and you will not be able to speak, until the day this is done, because you have not believed my words, which will be fulfilled in due time.
And the people were waiting for Zacharias and they were surprised that he took so long in the temple.
And when he came out, he couldn't speak to them; and then they understood that he had seen a vision in the temple; and he spoke to them in signs, and remained silent.
And it came to pass that, after the days of his service, he returned home.
And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and secluded herself at home for five months, saying:
Thus the Lord has done to me in the days when he deigned to take away my affront among men.
And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth,
a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, from the house of David; and the virgin's name was Maria.
And when the angel entered where she was, she said: Hail, very favored! The Lord is with you; blessed you among women.
But she, when she saw him, was troubled by his words and thought what greeting this would be.
Then the angel said to her: Fear not, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will call his name JESUS.
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give him the throne of David, his father.
And he will reign in the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.
Then Mary said to the angel: How will this be? Because I don't know a man.
And the angel answered and said to him: The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will cover you with his shadow; therefore also the Holy Being that is going to be born will be called Son of God.
And behold, your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month for her, the one who was called sterile;
because nothing is impossible for God.
Then Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be done to me according to your word. And the angel left her.
In those days, when Mary got up, she went to the mountain in a hurry, to a city of Judah;
and entered into Zacharias's house and greeted Elizabeth.
And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard Mary's salutation, the creature leaped into her womb; and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit
And she cried out with a loud voice and said: Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Why is this granted to me, that the mother of my Lord come to me?
For behold, when the voice of your greeting reached my ears, the creature leaped for joy in my belly.
And blessed is she who believed, for the things that were spoken to her from the Lord will be accomplished.
Then Mary said: My soul magnifies the Lord;
and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,
because he has looked at the humble condition of his servant; for behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed,
because the Mighty One has done great things to me; and holy is his name.
And his mercy is from generation to generation to those who fear him.
He did feats with his arm; scattered the proud in the thought of their hearts.
He removed the mighty from the thrones and raised the humble.
He filled the hungry with goods and the rich dismissed them empty.
He helped his servant Israel, remembering mercy,
of which he spoke to our parents, to Abraham, and to his descendants forever.
And Maria stayed with her for about three months; then he returned home.
And Elizabeth's time of birth was fulfilled, and she gave birth to a son.
And the neighbors and the relatives heard that God had shown great mercy towards her, and they rejoiced with her.
And it came to pass that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the boy, and called him by the name of his father, Zechariah.
And his mother answered and said: No, but John will be called.
And they said to him: Why? There is no one in your family who is called by that name.
Then they beckoned to his father what he wanted to call him.
And he, asking for a tablet, wrote, saying: John is his name. And everyone was amazed.
At that very moment his mouth was opened and his tongue was released, and he spoke, praising God.
And a fear came over all their neighbors; and in all the mountains of Judea all these things spread.
And all who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, Who then is this child? And the hand of the Lord was with him.
And Zacharias, his father, was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying:
Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, who has visited and redeemed his people,
and raised a horn of salvation for us in the house of David, his servant,
as he spoke from the mouth of his holy prophets who were from the beginning:
Salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hated us,
to show mercy to our parents and remember their holy covenant;
of the oath that he swore to Abraham, our father, to grant us,
that without fear, freed from our enemies, we would serve him
in holiness and justice before him all our days.
And you, child, prophet of the Most High will be called, because you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways,
to give knowledge of salvation to his people, for remission of his sins,
by the tender mercy of our God, with whom the dawn visited us from above,
to give light to those who live in darkness and the shadow of death, to direct our feet on the path of peace.
And the child grew and was strengthened in spirit; and he was in deserted places until the day that he showed himself to Israel.