Then all their assembly arose, and they brought Jesus before Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying: We have found that he perverts our nation, forbidding to pay tax to Caesar, and saying that He himself is Christ, a King.
Pilate then asked him, saying: Are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus answering him said: You say so.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and to the crowd: I find no crime in this man.
But they insisted, saying: He disturbs the people, teaching throughout Judea, starting from Galilee to here.
When Pilate heard this, he asked if the man was a Galilean.
Knowing that Jesus belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he referred him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem in those days.
When Herod saw Jesus, he was very happy, since he had wanted to see him for a long time because of what he had heard about him, and he expected to see some sign that he did.
And he questioned him extensively, but Jesus did not answer him.
The chief priests and scribes were also there, vehemently accusing him.
Then Herod, with his soldiers, after treating him with contempt and mocking him, dressed him in a splendid robe and sent him back to Pilate.
That same day Herod and Pilate became friends, for they had been at enmity with one another before.
Then Pilate called the chief priests, the rulers, and the people,
And he said to them: You have presented this man to me as one who incites the people to rebellion, but having questioned him before you, I have found no crime in this man of the accusations you make against him.
Neither did Herod, for he has sent it back to us; and behold, nothing has made him deserve death.
Therefore, after punishing him, I will release him.
And he had an obligation to release a prisoner at each party.
But all of them shouted at one, saying: Get away with this one, and release Barabbas to us!
(He had been thrown into prison for an uprising in the city, and for murder.)
Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, spoke to them again,
but they kept shouting, saying: Crucify him! Crucify Him!
And he said to them the third time: Why? What wrong has this done? I have not found in Him any crime worthy of death; therefore I will punish him and release him.
But they insisted, crying out loudly for him to be crucified. And their voices began to dominate.
Then Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
And he released the one they asked for, the one who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, but he delivered Jesus to their will.
When they took him away, they took a certain Simon of Cyrene who was coming from the field and put the cross on him to carry him behind Jesus.
And he was followed by a great crowd of the people and of women who wept and wailed for him.
But Jesus, turning to them, said: Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; cry rather for yourselves and for your children.
For behold, the days are coming when they will say: "Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never conceived, and the breasts that never nursed."
Then they will begin TO SAY TO THE MOUNTAINS: "FALL ON US"; AND TO THE COLLADOS: "COVER US".
Because if they do this in the green tree, what will happen in the dry?
And they also took two others, who were criminals, to be killed with Him.
When they arrived at the place called "La Calavera", they crucified Jesus and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left.
And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, because they don't know what they are doing. And they cast lots, dividing their dresses among themselves.
And the people were there watching; and even the rulers mocked Him, saying, He saved others; may he save himself if this is the Christ of God, his Chosen One.
The soldiers also mocked Him, reaching out and offering Him vinegar,
and saying: If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself.
There was also an inscription on Him, which said: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the criminals who were hanging there hurled insults at him, saying: Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!
But the other replied, and rebuking him, said: Do you not even fear God even though you are under the same sentence?
And we to the truth, precisely, because we receive what we deserve for our actions; but this has done nothing wrong.
And he said: Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.
Then He said to him: Truly I say to you: today you will be with me in paradise.
It was about the sixth hour, when darkness descended on all the earth until the ninth hour
at eclipsing the sun. The temple veil was torn in two.
And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said: Father, IN YOUR HANDS I COMMIT MY SPIRIT. And having said that, he sighed.
When the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying: Certainly, this man was innocent.
And when all the crowds that had gathered to witness this spectacle, observing what had happened, they turned, hitting their chests.
But all his acquaintances and the women who had accompanied him from Galilee were at a certain distance seeing these things.
And there was a man named Joseph, a member of the council, a good and just man
(who had not agreed to the plan and the actions of others) who was from Arimathea, city of the Jews, and who expected the kingdom of God.
This went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus,
And lowering him, he wrapped him in a linen cloth, and placed him in a grave carved out of the rock where no one had yet been laid.
It was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
And the women who had come with Him from Galilee followed behind, and they saw the grave and how the body was placed.
And when they returned, they prepared aromatic spices and perfumes.