Jesus having entered Jericho, was passing through the city.
And behold, a man named Zacchaeus, who was a principal of the publicans and was wealthy,
he tried to see who Jesus was but he could not because of the crowd because he was small in stature.
Then he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass there.
When Jesus arrived at that place, looking up, he saw him and said to him: “Zacchaeus, hurry up, come down; because today it is necessary that I stay in your house.
Then he hurried down and received it joyfully.
Seeing this, everyone murmured saying that he had entered to stay in the house of a sinful man.
Then Zacchaeus, on his feet, said to the Lord, "Behold, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone in any way, I give it back fourfold."
Jesus said to him, "Today salvation has come to this house, because he is also the son of Abraham.
Because the Son of Man has come to seek and save what was lost.
Hearing these things, Jesus went on and told a parable because it was close to Jerusalem and because they thought that the kingdom of God would immediately be manifested.
He said, then: "A certain man of noble stock went to a far country to receive a kingdom and return.
So he called ten of his servants and gave them a lot of money saying, 'Negotiate until I come.'
"But his citizens hated him, and they sent an embassy after him saying, 'We don't want this one to reign over us.'
"It happened that when he returned after taking the kingdom, he sent for those servants to whom he had given the money to find out what they had negotiated.
The first came and said: 'Sir, your money has produced ten times more.'
And he said to him: 'Very well, good servant; Since you have been faithful in a little, you will have authority over ten cities. '
The second came and said: 'Sir, your money has made five times more.'
He also said to him, 'You will also be over five cities.'
And another came and said: 'Lord, here is your money, which I have kept in a handkerchief.
Because I was afraid of you, that you are a severe man, that you take what you did not put and reap what you did not sow. '
Then he said to him: 'Evil servant, by your mouth I judge you! You knew that I am a severe man, that I take what I did not put and reap what I did not sow.
Why then did you not put my money in the bank so that when I came I would collect it along with the interest? '
And he said to those who were present: 'Take the money from him and give it to the one with the most money.'
They said to him, 'Sir, he already has a lot of money.'
He replied: 'Well, I tell you that to everyone who has, it will be given; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
But, as for those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and cut them down in my presence. '"
After saying this, he went ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that, coming near Bethphage and Bethany to the mount called of the Olives, he sent two disciples,
Saying, "Go to the village in front of you, and when you enter it, you will find a little donkey tied up on which no man has ever ridden." Untie him and bring him.
If someone asks them, "Why are you untying him?" They will answer him like this: "Because the Lord needs you."
Those who had been sent went and found as he had said.
When they untied the donkey, their owners said to them: —Why do they untie the donkey?
And they said: —Because the Lord needs it.
They brought the donkey to Jesus and, throwing their cloaks on it, they made Jesus ride on it.
And as he advanced, they spread their cloaks on the road.
When he arrived near the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a loud voice for all the wonders they had seen.
They said: —Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
Then some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, "Master, rebuke your disciples."
He responded saying to them: —I tell you that if they remain silent, the stones will scream.
When he got close, when he saw the city, he cried for it
saying: —Oh, if you knew, too, at least on this your day, what leads to your peace! But now it is hidden from your eyes.
For the days will come upon you when your enemies will surround you with a bulwark and lay siege to you, and they will squeeze you from all sides.
They will bring you down to the ground, and your children within you. They will not leave you stone on stone because you did not know the time of your visitation.
When he entered the temple, he began to cast out those who sold
saying to them: —It is written: My house is a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves.
He taught every day in the temple, but the chief priests and scribes and the chiefs of the people tried to kill him.
But they couldn't find a way to do something to him because the people listened to him very carefully.