And gathering his twelve disciples, he gave them power and authority over all demons and to heal diseases.
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And he said to them: Take nothing for the journey, neither a cane, nor a saddlebag, nor bread nor money; nor wear two robes each.
And in whatever house you enter, stay there and leave there.
And wherever they do not receive you, come out of that city and shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.
And going out, they went through all the villages, announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
And Herod, the Tetrarch, heard all the things that Jesus was doing; and he was perplexed, because some said: John has risen from the dead;
and others: Elijah has appeared; and others: Some prophet of the ancients has risen.
And Herod said: I had John decapitate. Who then is this of whom I hear such things? And I tried to see him.
And when the apostles returned, they told him all the things they had done. And taking them, he retired aside, to a deserted place in the city called Bethsaida.
And when people found out, they followed him; and he received them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God and healed those who needed to be healed.
But the day had begun to decline; And the twelve approached, and said to him, Send the multitudes away, that they may go to the surrounding villages and fields, and lodge and obtain food, for here we are in a desert place.
And he said to them, "Give them something to eat." And they said: We have only five loaves and two fish, unless we go to buy food for all this crowd.
And they were like five thousand men. Then he said to his disciples: Make them sit in groups of fifty to fifty.
And so they did, making them all sit down.
And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people.
And they all ate and were satisfied; And they collected what was left over, twelve baskets of what was left over.
And it came to pass that while he was praying, the disciples were with him; And he asked them, saying: Who do people say that I am?
And they answered and said: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; and others, some prophet of the ancients who has risen.
And he said to them: And who do you say that I am? Then Peter answered and said: The Christ of God.
But he, warning them, commanded them not to say this,
saying: It is necessary that the Son of Man suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, and by the chief priests and by the scribes, and that he be dead and rise on the third day.
And he said to everyone: If anyone wants to come after me, deny yourself, and take up your cross every day and follow me.
Because everyone who wants to save his life will lose it; and whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Well, what benefits man if the whole world wins and he loses or destroys himself?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of this the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his glory and in that of the Father, and of the holy angels.
And truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
And it came to pass, about eight days after these words, that Jesus took Peter, and John, and James, and went up the mountain to pray.
And while he prayed, the appearance of his face became different, and his clothes became white and shining.
And behold, two men who were talking to him, who were Moses and Elijah,
who appeared in glory, and spoke of the departure of Jesus, which was to be accomplished in Jerusalem.
And Peter and those who were with him were sleepy; and when they awoke fully, they saw the glory of Jesus and those two men who were with him.
And it came to pass, as they turned from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good that we are here; Let's make three branches, one for you, and one for Moses and one for Elijah, without knowing what he was saying.
And while he was saying this, a cloud came over them; and they were afraid as they entered the cloud.
And a voice came from the cloud, saying: This is my Beloved Son; hear him.
And when that voice ceased, Jesus was found alone. And they were silent and, in those days, they said nothing to anyone of what they had seen.
And it came about the next day that, when they had come down from the mountain, a large crowd met them.
And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying: Master, I beg you to see my son, who is the only one I have.
And behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out; and it shakes him and makes him froth, and bruising him, he hardly turns away from him.
And I begged your disciples to cast him out, but they couldn't.
And Jesus answering said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long must I be with you and bear you? Bring your son here.
And as the boy approached, the demon knocked him down and shook him; But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy and returned him to his father.
And they were all stunned at the greatness of God. And all marveling at all the things he did, he said to his disciples:
Put these words in your ears, because it will happen that the Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men.
But they did not understand these words, because they were veiled so that they would not understand them; and they were afraid to ask him about them.
Then they got into discussion about which of them would be the greatest.
But Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their hearts, took a child and put him next to him,
And he said to them: Whoever receives this child in my name receives me; and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me, because the one who is smallest among you all, is the greatest.
Then John spoke and said: Master, we have seen one who cast out demons in your name; and we forbid it, because he does not walk with us.
Jesus said to him, Do not forbid it to him, for he who is not against us is for us.
And it came to pass that, when the time was come that he was to be received upstairs, he established his face to go to Jerusalem.
And he sent messengers before him, who went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him.
But they did not receive him, because they saw in his countenance that he was going to Jerusalem.
And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said to him: Lord, do you want us to send fire down from heaven, as Elijah did, and consume them?
Then he turned and rebuked them, saying: You do not know what spirit you are from,
for the Son of Man has not come to destroy the souls of men, but to save them. And they went to another village.
And it came to pass, as they went, one said to him on the way, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him, Foxes have dens, and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
And he said to another: Follow me. And he answered him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father.
And Jesus said to him: Let the dead bury their dead; but you, go and announce the kingdom of God.
Then another said, "I will follow you, Lord; but let me say goodbye first to those in my house.
And Jesus said to him, No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God.