And Jesus also said to his disciples: There was a rich man who had a steward, and he was charged before him as a dissipator of his goods.
Then he called him and said: What is this I hear about you? Give an account of your stewardship, because you can no longer be a steward.
Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? Because my lord takes the stewardship from me. Dig, I can't; begging, I'm ashamed.
I know what I will do so that, when the stewardship is removed, they will receive me at their homes.
And calling each of his lord's debtors, he said to the first, How much do you owe to my lord?
And he said: One hundred barrels of oil. And he said to him: Take your account, sit down immediately and write fifty.
Then he said to another: How much do you owe? And he said: One hundred measures of wheat. And he said to him: Take your account and write eighty.
And the lord praised the bad steward for having shrewdly done, because the children of this world are more shrewd in their generation than the children of light.
And I say to you: Make friends through the riches of evil, so that when you lack, they will receive you into the eternal dwellings.
He who is faithful in very little is also faithful in much; and he who is very unjust in a very little, is also unjust in a great deal.
Well, if you were not faithful in bad wealth, who will entrust you with the true?
And if you were not faithful in others, who will give you what is yours?
No servant can serve two masters, because either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will esteem the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth.
And the Pharisees, who were greedy and made fun of him, also heard all these things.
Then he said to them: You are the ones who justify yourselves before men; But God knows your hearts, because what men consider sublime before God is abomination.
The law and the prophets went to John. Since then the kingdom of God is announced, and everyone strives to enter it.
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, for a single tittle of the law to fall.
Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery; and whoever marries the divorced husband commits adultery.
There was a rich man who was dressed in purple and fine linen and feasted splendidly every day.
There was also a beggar named Lazarus, who was lying at his door, full of sores,
and he wanted to be satisfied with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table; Even the dogs came and licked his sores.
And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom; And the rich man also died and was buried.
And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
Then he cried out, saying: Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and refresh my tongue, because I am tormented in this flame.
And Abraham said to him: Son, remember that you received your good in your life, and Lazarus, for his part, evil; but now he is comforted here, and you are tormented.
And besides all this, there is a great chasm between us and you, so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, nor from there pass here.
Then he said, "Please, father, send him to my father's house,
for I have five brothers, that I may testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment.
And Abraham said to him: They have Moses and the prophets; Let them hear them!
He then said: No, father Abraham; but if anyone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.
But Abraham said to him: If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead.