On that same occasion there were some who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with that of their sacrifices.
Jesus answered and said to them: Do you think that these Galileans were more sinful than all the other Galileans, because they suffered this?
I tell you, no; on the contrary, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
Or do you think that those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloe fell and killed them, were more debtors than all the men who live in Jerusalem?
I tell you, no; on the contrary, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
And he told them this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he went looking for fruit of it, and did not find it.
And he said to the vinedresser: "Look, I've been looking for fruit on this fig tree for three years, and I can't find it. Cut it down. Why should the earth tire?"
He then, answering, said to her: "Lord, leave her for this year yet, until I dig around her, and I fertilize her,
and if it bears fruit next year, fine; and if not, cut it. "
Jesus was teaching a Sabbath in one of the synagogues,
and there was a woman there who for eighteen years had had a disease caused by a spirit; she was hunched over, and there was no way she could straighten up.
When Jesus saw her, he called her and said: Woman, you have been freed from your illness.
And he laid his hands on her, and instantly she straightened up and glorified God.
But the synagogue officer, outraged that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, reacted by saying to the crowd: There are six days in which you must work; therefore come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath.
Then the Lord answered him and said: Hypocrites, does not each one of you untie his ox or his ass from the manger on the Sabbath and take it to drink?
And this, who is the daughter of Abraham, to whom Satan has been bound for eighteen long years, should she not be freed from this binding on the Sabbath?
And as He said this, all his adversaries were ashamed, but the whole crowd rejoiced at all the glorious things done by Him.
Then he said: What is the kingdom of God like and what will I compare it to?
It is like a mustard seed that a man took and put in his garden; And it grew and became a tree, AND THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN NESTED IN ITS BRANCHES.
And he said again: To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
It is similar to the yeast that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until everything was fermented.
Jesus passed through cities and villages, teaching, as he continued on his way to Jerusalem.
And someone said to him: Lord, are there few who are saved? And He said to them:
Make an effort to enter through the narrow door, because I tell you that many will try to enter and will not be able to.
After the owner of the house gets up and closes the door, and you, outside, begin to knock on the door, saying: "Lord, open to us", He responding, will tell you: "I don't know where you are from."
Then you will begin to say: "We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets";
and He will say: "I tell you, I do not know where you are from; DEPART FROM ME, ALL THOSE WHO DO INIQUITY."
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you cast out.
And they will come from the east and the west, from the north and from the south, and will sit at the table in the kingdom of God.
And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.
At that moment some Pharisees came saying to him: Get out of here, because Herod wants to kill you.
And He said to them: Go and tell that fox: "I cast out demons, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and on the third day I fulfill my purpose."
However, I must continue on my way, today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow; for it cannot be that a prophet dies outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the hen to her chicks under her wings, and you didn't want to!
Behold, your house is left to you deserted; and I tell you that you will not see me anymore, until the time comes when you say: "BLESSED IS HE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD."