And it happened in those days that an edict was issued by Caesar Augustus, so that a census of the entire inhabited world could be made.
This was the first census to be taken when Cyreneus was governor of Syria.
And they were all heading to register for the census, each to his city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David,
to register together with Maria, married to him, who was pregnant.
And it happened that while they were there, the days of her delivery were fulfilled.
And she gave birth to her firstborn son; He wrapped him in diapers and put him to bed in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn.
In the same region there were shepherds who were in the field, tending their flocks during the night vigils.
And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord surrounded them with brightness, and they were greatly afraid.
But the angel said to them: Do not fear, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people;
for today in the city of David a Savior was born to you, who is Christ the Lord.
And this will serve as a sign: you will find a child wrapped in diapers and lying in a manger.
And suddenly a multitude of the heavenly armies appeared with the angel, praising God and saying:
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men in whom He is pleased.
And it came to pass that when the angels went to heaven, the shepherds said to one another: Let us therefore go to Bethlehem and see what has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.
They went in a hurry, and found Mary and Joseph, and the Child lying in the manger.
And when they saw it, they made known what they had been told about this Child.
And all who heard it marveled at the things that were told to them by the shepherds.
But Mary treasured all these things, reflecting on them in her heart.
And the shepherds turned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, just as they had been told.
When the eight days were completed to circumcise him, they named him Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
When the days for their purification were fulfilled, according to the law of Moses, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord
(as it is written in the Law of the Lord: EVERY MALE WHO OPENS THE MATRIX WILL BE CALLED HOLY FOR THE LORD),
and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord: A PAIR OF TORTOLS OR TWO PICKS.
And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; and this man, just and pious, awaited the consolation of Israel; and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
And by the Holy Spirit it had been revealed to him that he would not see death without first seeing the Lord's Christ.
Moved by the Spirit, he went to the temple. And when the parents of the child Jesus brought him to fulfill for him the rite of the law,
he took the Child in his arms, and blessed God and said:
Now, Lord, allow your servant to go in peace, according to your word;
because my eyes have seen your salvation
which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples;
LIGHT OF REVELATION TO THE GENTILES, and glory of your people Israel.
And the boy's parents were amazed at the things that were said about him.
Simeon blessed them, and said to his mother Mary: Behold, this Child has been set up for the fall and rise of many in Israel, and to be a sign of contradiction
(and a sword will pierce even your own soul) so that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was a prophetess, Ana, daughter of Fanuel, from the tribe of Asher. She was very old, and had lived with her husband seven years after their marriage,
and after widow, until the age of eighty-four. He never left the temple, serving night and day with fasts and prayers.
And when she arrived at that precise moment, she thanked God and spoke of Him to all those who awaited the redemption of Jerusalem.
Having fulfilled everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their city of Nazareth.
And the Child grew and became strong, filling himself with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon Him.
His parents used to go to Jerusalem every year for the Feast of the Passover.
And when he was twelve years old, they went up there according to the custom of the party;
and when they returned, after having passed all the days of the feast, the boy Jesus remained in Jerusalem without his parents knowing it,
and assuming he was in the caravan, they walked one day, and began to look for him among relatives and acquaintances.
When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem looking for him.
And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them, and asking them questions.
And everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers.
When his parents saw him, they were amazed; And his mother said to him: Son, why have you treated us this way? Look, your father and I have been looking for you full of anguish.
Then He said to them: Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that it was necessary for me to be in my Father's house?
But they did not understand the words that He had spoken to them.
And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and continued to be subject to them. And his mother treasured all these things in her heart.
And Jesus grew in wisdom, in stature, and in grace towards God and men.