Then Jesus, filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the desert.
for forty days, and was tempted by the devil. He ate nothing in those days; and when they were fulfilled, he was hungry.
Then the devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to make bread."
Jesus answered him, "It is written: Man will not live by bread alone."
Taking him to a height, he showed him all the kingdoms of the earth in a moment.
And the devil said to him, "To you I will give all authority and their glory; because it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I want.
For this, if you adore me, everything will be yours.
Jesus answered and said to him, "It is written: You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve."
And he brought him to Jerusalem and stood him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, lie down from here.
For it is written, He will send his angels about you to guard you,
and they will carry you in their hands, so that you never trip over your foot on stone.
Jesus answered and said to him, "It is said: You will not test the Lord your God.
When the devil finished all temptation, he turned away from him for some time.
Then Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and his fame spread throughout the surrounding land.
He taught in their synagogues and was glorified by all. Jesus in the synagogue of Nazareth
He went to Nazareth, where he had been raised, and, according to his custom, on Saturday he entered the synagogue and got up to read.
The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed over to him; and when he opened the scroll he found the place where it was written:
The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to announce good news to the poor; He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and sight to the blind, to release the oppressed
and to proclaim the pleasant year of the Lord.
After rolling up the book and returning it to the assistant, he sat down. And everyone's eyes in the synagogue were fixed on him.
Then he began to say to them, "Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your ears.
They all bore witness to him and were amazed at the words of grace that came from his mouth, and said: "Is not this the son of Joseph?"
Then he said to them, "You will no doubt tell me this saying: 'Physician, heal yourself. We have heard that so many things happened in Capernaum; do the same here in your land as well.'
And he added: —Truly I say to you, that no prophet is accepted in his land.
But in truth I tell you that there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when heaven was closed for three years and six months and there was a great famine in all the earth,
but to none of them was Elijah sent, but to a widow in Sarepta of Sidon.
There were also many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, but none of them was healed but the Syrian Naaman.
Hearing these things, everyone in the synagogue was filled with anger,
And they got up and threw him out of the city. Then they took him to a precipice of the mountain on which his city was built to rock him.
But he passed through their midst and left.
So he went down to Capernaum, the city of Galilee, and taught them on Saturdays.
And they were amazed at his teaching because his word was authoritative.
There was a man in the synagogue who had an unclean demon spirit, and he exclaimed with a loud voice:
—Oh! What do you have with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God!
Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Shut up and get out of him!" Then the demon came out of him knocking him down there in the middle of all but without doing him any harm.
They were all amazed and they spoke to each other saying: —What word is this, that with authority and power commands the unclean spirits, and they leave?
And his fame spread throughout the region.
Jesus got up and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. And Simon's mother-in-law was prostrated with a strong fever, and they begged for her.
He leaned towards her and rebuked the fever and the fever left her, and immediately she got up and began to serve them.
At sunset, all those who had patients with various ailments brought them to him. And he, putting his hands on each of them, healed them.
And also many came out demons, shouting and saying: "You are the Son of God!". But he rebuked them and would not let them speak because they knew that he was the Christ.
As it was daytime, he left and went to a deserted place and the crowds were looking for him. They came to him and detained him so that he would not leave them.
But he said to them: "It is necessary for me to announce the gospel of the kingdom of God to other cities too, because for this I have been sent."
And he was preaching through the synagogues in Galilee.