It happened on a Saturday, when he entered the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees to eat bread, that they were watching him carefully.
And behold, a man with dropsy was before him.
Then Jesus answered and spoke to the teachers of the law and to the Pharisees saying: —Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?
But they were silent. So he took it, healed it and fired it.
And he said to them, "Which of you, if his son or his ox falls into a well, will he not draw it immediately on the Sabbath day?"
And they couldn't answer these things.
Observing the guests, how they chose the first seats at the table, he related a parable saying:
—When you are invited by someone to a wedding party, you don't feel in the first place; lest another more distinguished than you have been invited by him
and may the one who invited you and the other come and say to you: "Give place to this one," and then start with shame to take last place.
Rather, when you are invited, go and sit in the last place so that when the one who invited you comes, he says: "Friend, go higher." Then you will have glory before those who sit with you at the table.
For anyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
He also said to the one who had invited him: —When you have lunch or dinner, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or your wealthy neighbors; lest they invite you again, and compensation be made to you.
But when you feast, call the poor, the one-armed, the lame, and the blind.
And you will be blessed; Because they cannot repay you, but you will be rewarded in the resurrection of the righteous.
Hearing this, one of those sitting at the table said to him, "Blessed is he who eats bread in the kingdom of God!
But he said to him, "A man made a great feast and invited many.
At the banquet time he sent his servant to say to the guests, "Come, because you are ready."
But all together they began to apologize. The first said: "I have bought a field and I need to go out to see it; I beg your pardon."
The other said, "I have bought five yoke of oxen and I am going to test them. I beg your pardon."
The other said: "I just got married and therefore I can't go."
When the servant returned, he made these things known to his master. Then the owner of the house became angry and said to his servant: "Go quickly to the squares and streets of the city and bring the poor, the one-armed, the blind and the lame here."
Then the servant said, "Lord, what you commanded has been done, and there is still room."
The lord said to the servant, "Go down the roads and down the alleys, and demand that they come in so that my house may be full.
Well I tell you that none of those men who were invited will like my banquet. "
Large crowds were with him, and he turned and said to them:
"If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
And anyone who does not take up his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
Because which one of you, wanting to build a tower, does not sit down first and calculate the expenses, to see if he has what he needs to finish it?
Not that after laying the foundation, and failing to finish it, everyone who sees it begins to make fun of it
saying: 'This man began to build, and could not finish.'
Or what king, who goes out to make war against another king, does not sit down first and asks if he can go out with ten thousand to meet the one who comes with twenty thousand?
Otherwise, when the other king is still far away, he sends him an embassy and asks for conditions of peace.
So any one of you who doesn't give up all the things he owns cannot be my disciple.
"Good is the salt; but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what will it be seasoned?
It is neither good for the land nor for compost; that's why they throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. "