After these things, the Lord appointed seventy others, whom he sent before him two by two to every city and place where he was to go.
And he said to them: "In truth, the harvest is great but the workers are few. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send workers to his harvest.
Go! Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves.
Do not carry a bag or saddlebags or shoes; nor greet anyone along the way.
"In any house you enter, first say: 'Peace be to this house.'
If there is a son of peace there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will come back to you.
Posen in that same house, eating and drinking what they give you because the worker is worthy of his salary. Do not walk from house to house.
In any city where you come in and receive them, eat whatever is set before you.
Heal the sick who are there and tell them: 'The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.'
"But in any city where they enter and they don't receive them, go out to their streets and say:
'Even the dust of your city that has stuck to our feet we shake against you. But know this: that the kingdom of God is at hand. '
I tell you that in that day it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for that city.
"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty deeds that had been done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, you would have long ago repented sitting on sackcloth and ashes.
Therefore, in the judgment it will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? Even Hades you will be sunk!
He who listens to them listens to me; he who rejects them rejects me; and he who rejects me rejects the one who sent me. "
The seventy returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"
He said to them, "I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning."
Behold, I give you authority to step on serpents, scorpions, and above all the power of the enemy; and nothing will harm them.
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that their names are inscribed in the heavens.
At that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said: "I praise you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to children. Yes, Father, because that's how you liked it.
"All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is but the Father; nor who is the Father but the Son and whoever the Son wants to reveal."
Turning to the disciples, he said to them separately: “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see.
Because I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, and did not see it; and hear what they hear, and did not hear it.
And behold, a certain teacher of the law rose to test him, saying: "Master, by what thing will I possess eternal life?"
And he said to him: "What is written in the law?" How do you read
He replied saying: —You will love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself.
He said, "You have responded well." Do this and you will live.
But he, wanting to justify himself, asked Jesus: "And who is my neighbor?"
Jesus answered and said to him: —A certain man was descending from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell into the hands of thieves who stripped him of his clothes, wounded him and left him half dead.
By chance, a certain priest came down that road and, seeing him, passed by.
In the same way, a Levite also arrived at the place and, when going and seeing him, he passed by.
But a certain Samaritan, who was traveling, came near him and, seeing him, was moved to mercy.
Approaching him, he bandaged his wounds by pouring oil and wine on them. And putting him on his own mount, he carried him to an inn and cared for him.
The next day he took out two coins and gave them to the innkeeper saying, "Take care of me, and I'll pay you for everything you spend more when I return."
Which of these three seems to you to have been the neighbor of the one who fell into the hands of thieves?
He said, "The one who showed mercy on him." Then Jesus said to him, "Go and do the same.
Continuing their way, he entered a village; and a woman named Marta received him at her home.
This had a sister named Maria, who sat at the feet of the Lord and listened to his word.
But Marta was preoccupied with many chores and, coming closer, she said: "Sir, don't you mind that my sister has let me serve alone?" So tell him to help me.
But the Lord answered and said to him: "Marta, Marta, you are busy and you worry about many things."
But only one thing is necessary. For Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken from her.