The day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread which is called Easter was near.
The chief priests and scribes were looking for ways to eliminate him, for they feared the people.
Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, who was one of the number of the twelve.
He went and spoke to the chief priests and magistrates about how to deliver him.
These were happy and agreed to give him money.
He agreed and was looking for the opportunity to deliver it without people noticing.
The day of Unleavened Bread arrived, in which it was necessary to sacrifice the paschal victim.
Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, "Come on, prepare Easter for us to eat."
They asked him: "Where do you want us to prepare it?"
He said to them, "Behold, when you enter the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water." Follow him to the house where he enters.
Say to the owner of the house: "The Master says to you: 'Where is the room in which I am to eat Easter with my disciples?'"
And he will show you a large upper room already arranged. Prepare there.
So they went and found as I had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
When the hour came, he sat down at the table, and with him the apostles.
And he said to them: —How I have wanted to eat with you this Easter before suffering!
Because I tell you that I will not eat more of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
Then he had a drink and, having given thanks, said: "Take this and share it among yourselves
For I tell you that from now on I will no longer drink the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
Then he took bread and, having given thanks, he broke it and gave them saying: "This is my body that is given for you." Do this in memory of me.
Likewise, after having supper, he also took the cup and said: —This cup is the new covenant in my blood that is shed for you.
However, behold, the hand of the bearer is with me on the table.
In truth, the Son of Man goes according to what is determined, but woe to that man by whom he is delivered!
Then they began to ask each other which of them would be the one to do this.
There was a dispute between them about which of them seemed to be the most important.
Then he said to them, "The kings of the nations rule over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors.
But between you it will not be like that. Rather, the one among you who is the most important, is like the newest; and the one who is a leader, like the one who serves.
Because which is the most important: the one who sits at the table, or the one who serves? Isn't he the one who sits at the table? However, I am in your midst as the one who serves.
"And you are the ones who have stayed with me in my tests.
So I have a kingdom for you, as my Father arranged for me,
to eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
"Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has asked me to shake you like wheat.
But I have prayed for you that your faith does not fail. And you, when you have returned, confirm your brothers.
He said to her, "Sir, I am ready to go with you even to prison and to death."
But he said: —Pedro, I tell you that the rooster will not crow today before you have denied three times that you know me.
And he said to them: "When I sent you without a bag, without a saddlebag and without shoes, was there something missing?" They said, "Nothing."
Then he said to them: —Well, now, whoever has a bag, take it; and also the saddlebag. And he who does not have a sword, sell his cloak and buy one.
Because I tell you that what is written must be fulfilled in me: And it was numbered with the criminals. Because what is written about me has fulfillment.
Then they said, "Sir, here are two swords. And he said, "Enough."
After leaving, he went, as he used to, to the Mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.
When he arrived at the scene, he said to them: "Pray that you are not tempted."
And he turned away from them a considerable distance and, kneeling, prayed
saying: —Father, if you want, take this cup away from me; but not my will but yours be done.
[Then an angel from heaven appeared to him to strengthen him.
And anguished, he prayed with greater intensity, so that his sweat was like great drops of blood that fell to the ground].
When he got up from praying and returned to his disciples, he found them asleep because of sadness.
And he said to them: "Why do you sleep?" Get up and pray that you are not tempted. Jesus is arrested
While he was still speaking, behold, a crowd came. The one called Judas, one of the twelve, came before them and approached Jesus to kiss him.
Then Jesus said to him, "Judas, do you give the Son of Man with a kiss?"
When those who were with him saw what was to happen, they said to him: "Sir, shall we strike with the sword?"
And one of them struck a servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Then Jesus answered and said: "Enough of this!" And touching his ear, he healed him.
Then Jesus said to the chief priests, to the temple magistrates, and to the elders who had come against him, "Like a robber, have you come out with swords and clubs?"
Having been with you every day in the temple, you did not extend your hand against me. But this is your hour and that of the power of darkness.
They seized him, took him away, and made him enter the house of the high priest. And Pedro followed him from afar.
When they lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat around it, Peter also sat among them.
Then a maid, seeing him sitting by the fire, stared at him and said: "This one was with him!"
But he denied saying: —Woman, I don't know him.
A little later, when another saw him, he said: "You are one of them too!" And Pedro said: —Man, I'm not.
About an hour later, another insisted saying, "Truly, this one was also with him because he is a Galilean."
And Pedro said: —Man, I don't know what you are saying! And immediately, while he was still talking, the rooster crowed.
Then the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord as he had said: "Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times."
And going outside, Pedro wept bitterly.
The men who had Jesus in custody made fun of him and beat him.
And covering him they asked him saying: "Prophesy! Who is the one who hit you?
And they told him many other things insulting him.
When it dawned, the village elders, the chief priests, and the scribes gathered and took him to their Sanhedrin.
And they said to him: "If you are the Christ, tell us!" But he said to them, "If I told you, you wouldn't believe it."
Also, if I asked them, they wouldn't answer me.
But, from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.
They all said to him, "Then are you the Son of God?" And he said to them: —You say that I am.
Then they said, "What further need do we have for testimony?" Because we ourselves have heard it from his mouth.