It happened in those days that an edict was issued by César Augusto to take a census of the entire inhabited world.
This first census was conducted while Cirenio was governor of Syria.
They were all going to register for the census, each to his city.
Then Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David called Bethlehem, because he was from the house and family of David,
to enroll with Maria, his wife, who was pregnant.
It happened that, while they were there, the days of her delivery were fulfilled
and she gave birth to her firstborn son. He wrapped him in diapers and laid him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn.
There were shepherds in that region who kept watch and kept the night watches over their flock.
And an angel of the Lord appeared before them and the glory of the Lord surrounded them with brightness; and they feared with great fear.
But the angel said to them, "Do not fear, for behold, I give you good news of great joy that will be for all the people:
that today, in the city of David, a Savior has been born to you, who is Christ the Lord.
And this will serve as a sign: They will find the child wrapped in diapers and lying in a manger.
Suddenly, a multitude of the heavenly hosts appeared with the angel, praising God and saying:
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men of good will!"
It happened that when the angels went from them to heaven the shepherds said to each other: —Let us go to Bethlehem right now and see what has happened, and that the Lord has made known to us.
They went quickly and found Maria and José, and the child lying in the manger.
Seeing him, they made known what had been said to them about this child.
All who heard were amazed at what the shepherds told them;
but Mary kept all these things meditating on her heart.
The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, just as they had been told.
When the eight days were completed to circumcise the boy, they called his name Jesus, a name that was given to him by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
When the days of their purification were fulfilled according to the Law of Moses, they took the boy to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord
(As it is written in the law of the Lord: Every man who opens the womb will be called holy to the Lord)
and to give the offering according to what is said in the law of the Lord: a pair of turtledoves or two pigeons.
Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem named Simeon, and this man was just and godly; he awaited the consolation of Israel and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he saw the Christ of the Lord.
Moved by the Spirit, he entered the temple; and when the parents brought the baby Jesus to do with him according to the custom of the law,
Simeon took him in his arms and blessed God saying:
"Now, Sovereign Lord, dismiss your servant in peace according to your word;
because my eyes have seen your salvation
that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples:
light for revelation of the nations and glory of your people Israel.
His father and mother marveled at the things that were said about him.
And Simeon blessed them and said to his mother Mary, "Behold, this is set for the fall and rise of many in Israel, and for a sign that will be contradicted,
so that the thoughts of many hearts may be discovered. And a sword will pierce your very soul.
Also there was the prophetess Ana, daughter of Fanuel, of the tribe of Aser. She was elderly, having lived with her husband for seven years since their marriage.
and she had been a widow for eighty-four years. He did not depart from the temple, serving with fasts and prayers night and day.
At the same hour, he went to the temple, thanking God and speaking of the child to all who awaited redemption in Jerusalem.
When they fulfilled all the requirements of the Lord's law, they returned to Galilee, to their city of Nazareth.
The child grew and became strong and filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon him.
His parents went to Jerusalem every year for the Passover feast.
When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the festival.
When the days of the feast were over, while they returned, the baby Jesus stayed in Jerusalem; and his parents did not know.
Assuming he was in the caravan, they went a day on the road and were looking for him among relatives and acquaintances.
When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem looking for him.
It happened that after three days they found him in the temple sitting in the middle of the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions.
Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his responses.
When they saw him they were amazed, and his mother said to him, "Son, why have you done this to us?" Behold, your father and I looked for you with anguish.
Then he said to them, "Why were you looking for me?" Did you not know that in my Father's affairs it is necessary for me to be?
But they did not understand the saying that spoke to them.
He went down with them and went to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And his mother kept all these things in her heart.
And Jesus grew in wisdom, in stature, and in grace towards God and men.