And it came to pass that when Jesus entered the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees on a Sabbath day to eat bread, they were watching him carefully.
And there, in front of Him, was a man with dropsy.
And Jesus, addressing the interpreters of the law and the Pharisees, spoke to them saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?
But they were silent. And He, taking him by the hand, healed him and dismissed him.
And he said to them, To whom of you does a son or an ox fall into a pit on the Sabbath, and do not immediately remove it?
And they couldn't answer this.
And he began to tell a parable to the guests, when he noticed how they chose places of honor at the table, saying:
When you are invited by someone to a wedding banquet, do not take the place of honor, lest he has invited someone more distinguished than you,
And when the one who invited you and him came, tell you: "Give this place"; and then, embarrassed, you have to go to the last place.
But when you are invited, go and sit in the last place, so that when the one who invited you arrives, he says to you: "Friend, come later"; then you will be honored in front of all who sit at the table with you.
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled; and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
And he also said to the one who had invited him: When you offer a lunch or dinner, do not call your friends, your brothers, your relatives, or your wealthy neighbors, lest they in turn also convince you and have your reward already.
Rather, when you offer a banquet, call the poor, the one-armed, the lame, the blind,
and you will be blessed, since they do not have to reward you; for you will be rewarded in the resurrection of the righteous.
When one of those who were sitting with him at the table heard this, he said: Blessed is everyone who eats bread in the kingdom of God!
But He said to him: A certain man gave a great dinner, and invited many;
and at dinner he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, "Come, for everything is already prepared."
And everyone began to apologize. The first said to him: "I have bought a piece of land and I need to go see it; I beg your pardon."
And another said: "I have bought five yoke of oxen and I am going to test them; I beg your pardon."
Another also said: "I have married, and that is why I cannot go."
When the servant returned, he reported all this to his lord. Then, angry the owner of the house, said to his servant: "Go immediately through the streets and alleys of the city, and bring here the poor, the one-handed, the blind and the lame."
And the servant said, "Lord, what you commanded has been done, and there is still room."
Then the lord said to the servant: "Go out to the roads and through the fences, and force them to enter so that my house is full.
Because I tell you, none of those men who were invited will taste my dinner. "
Large crowds accompanied him; and he turned and said to them:
If anyone comes to me, and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children, his brothers and sisters, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
He who does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
For which of you, wanting to build a tower, does not sit first and calculate the cost, to see if he has enough to finish it?
Lest when he has laid the foundation and can't finish, everyone who sees him will start making fun of him,
saying: "This man began to build and could not finish."
Or what king, when he meets another king for battle, does not sit down first and deliberate if with ten thousand men he is strong enough to face the one who comes against him with twenty thousand?
And if not, when the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for peace conditions.
So any one of you who does not give up all his possessions cannot be my disciple.
Therefore, salt is good, but if the salt has also lost its flavor, with what will it be seasoned?
It is not useful neither for the land nor for the manure; they throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.