Jesus also said to the disciples: There was a certain rich man who had a steward; and he was accused before him of squandering his property.
Then he called him and said: "What is this I hear about you? Be accountable for your administration, because you can not be more steward."
And the butler said to himself: "What shall I do? Well, my lord is taking the administration from me. I have no strength to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from the administration they will receive me at their homes. "
And calling each of his lord's debtors, he said to the first, "How much do you owe my lord?"
And he said, "One hundred barrels of oil." And he said: "Take your bill, sit down soon and write fifty."
Then he said to another, "And how much do you owe?" And he replied, "One hundred measures of wheat." He said to her *: "Take your bill and write eighty."
The lord praised the unjust steward because he had acted with shrewdness, for the children of this century are more shrewd in relations with their fellow men than the children of light.
And I say to you: Make friends through unjust riches, so that when they are lacking, they will welcome you into the eternal dwellings.
He who is faithful in very little is faithful also in much; and he who is unjust in very little is also unjust in much.
Therefore, if you have not been faithful in the use of unjust riches, who will entrust you with true riches?
And if you have not been faithful in the use of what is foreign, who will give you what is yours?
No servant can serve two masters, because either he will hate one and love the other, or he will be attached to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth.
The Pharisees, who were money lovers, heard all these things and made fun of Him.
And He said to them: You are the ones who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts, because what is highly esteemed among men, abominable is before God.
The law and the prophets were proclaimed until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God has been announced, and everyone has been striving to enter it.
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, for an iota of the law to cease to be fulfilled.
Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery; and whoever marries her who is divorced from her husband commits adultery.
There was a certain rich man who was dressed in purple and fine linen, celebrating lavishly every day.
And a poor man named Lazarus lay at his door covered in sores,
longing to be satisfied with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table; also, even the dogs came and licked the sores.
And it came to pass that the poor man died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom; And the rich man also died and was buried.
In Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and saw Abraham in the distance, and Lazarus in his bosom.
And shouting, he said: "Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip his fingertip in water and refresh my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame."
But Abraham said to him: "Son, remember that during your life you received your goods, and Lazarus, equally, evils; but now he is comforted here, and you are in agony.
And in addition to all this, there is a great chasm between us and you, so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, and no one can cross from there to us either. "
So he said, "I beg you, then, father, to send him to my father's house,
for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them, so that they too may not come to this place of torment. "
But Abraham said *: "They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them."
And he said, "No, father Abraham, but if anyone goes to them from the dead, they will repent."
But Abraham replied: "If you do not listen to Moses and the prophets, you will not be persuaded if anyone rises from the dead."