He also told them a parable about the need to always pray and not lose heart.
He told them: "In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man.
There was also in that city a widow who came to him saying: 'Do me justice against my adversary.'
He did not want for some time but then he said to himself: 'Although I neither fear God nor respect man,
I will do justice to this widow because she does not stop bothering me; so I don't continually come to get tired. '"
Then the Lord said: "Hear what the unjust judge says.
And will not God do justice to his elect who cry out to him day and night? Will it keep you waiting?
I tell you, he will defend them soon. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth? "
He also told this parable to some who trusted themselves as being just and belittling others:
"Two men went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
The Pharisee, standing up, prayed to himself in this way: 'God, I thank you that I am not like other men: thieves, unjust, adulterers; Not even like this publican.
I fast twice a week, I tithe everything I own. '
But the publican, standing at a certain distance, did not want to even look up to heaven, but beat his chest saying: 'God, be merciful to me, I am a sinner'.
I tell you, this man went home justified instead of the first. For anyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. "
Young children were also introduced to him to touch. And the disciples, seeing this, rebuked them.
But Jesus called them saying: "Let the children come to me and do not prevent them because of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I tell you, anyone who does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will never enter it. "Jesus and the rich young man
A certain leading man asked him, saying, "Good teacher, what shall I do to obtain eternal life?"
And Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me 'good'?" None is good but only one, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery, do not commit murder, do not steal, do not give false testimony, honor your father and mother.
Then he said to him, "I have kept all this from my youth."
Hearing this, Jesus said to him, "You still lack one thing: Sell everything you have and share it with the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
So when he heard these things, he was very sad because he was very rich.
Jesus, seeing that he had become very sad, said: "How hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Those who heard this said, "And who can be saved?"
He said to them: "What is impossible for men is possible for God.
Then Peter said, "Behold, we have left what is ours and we have followed you."
And he said to them, "Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left a house, wife, brothers, parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
may he not receive much more at this time, and in the age to come eternal life.
Jesus, taking the twelve, said to them, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that were written by the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled.
For he will be delivered to the Gentiles, and will be mocked, reviled, and spat upon.
After they have scourged him, they will kill him; but on the third day he will rise again.
However, they did not understand any of this. This word was hidden from them, and they did not understand what was being said to them.
As Jesus approached Jericho, it happened that a blind man was sitting by the road begging.
When he heard the crowd go by, he asked what that was.
And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing.
Then he cried out, saying, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Those who went before rebuked him to be quiet, but he cried more insistently: "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Then Jesus stopped, ordered to be brought to him, and when he arrived he asked
saying, "What do you want me to do to you?" And he said, "Sir, may I get my sight back."
Jesus said to him, "Get your sight back; your faith has saved you.
He immediately regained his sight, and continued to glorify God. And all the people, seeing this, praised God.