It came to pass that Jesus passed through the fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples plucked ears and ate them by rubbing them with their hands.
And some of the Pharisees said, "Why do you do what is not lawful to do on Saturdays?"
Responding, Jesus said, "Have you not read what David did when he and those who were with him were hungry?"
He entered the house of God, took the loaves of the Presence, which is not lawful to eat but only the priests, and ate and gave also to those who were with him.
He also said to them: —The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
It happened on another Saturday that he entered the synagogue and taught. And there was a man whose right hand was paralyzed.
The scribes and Pharisees stalked him to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, to find out what to accuse him of.
But he, knowing their reasoning, said to the man whose hand was paralyzed: "Get up and stand in the middle." He got up and stood in the middle.
Then Jesus said to them: —I ask them: "Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to take it away?"
Looking around at them all, he said to the man, "Hold out your hand." He did, and his hand was restored to him.
Then they were filled with anger and discussed with each other what they could do with Jesus.
It happened in those days that Jesus went out to the mountain to pray and spent the whole night in prayer to God.
When daylight came, he called his disciples and from them he chose twelve whom he also called apostles:
Simon, whom Peter also called, and his brother Andrew; Jacobo and Juan; Felipe and Bartolomé;
Mateo and Tomás; James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the Zealot;
Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who also became the traitor.
He went down with them and stood on a plain, along with a crowd of his disciples and a large number of people from all over Judea, from Jerusalem, and from the shores of Tire and Sidon, who had come to hear him and to be healed of his diseases.
Those who were tormented by unclean spirits were healed,
and all the people tried to touch it; because power came out of him and healed everyone.
And raising his eyes to his disciples, he said: "Blessed are you poor because yours is the kingdom of God.
"Blessed are those who are hungry now because they will be satisfied." Blessed are those who now cry because they will laugh.
"Blessed are you when men hate you, when they separate you from you and revile you, and they reject your name as if it were evil, because of the Son of Man.
Enjoy yourself on that day and jump for joy because behold your reward is great in heaven; for so did your fathers do to the prophets.
"But woe to you rich people! Because you are receiving your comfort.
"Woe to you who are satiated now! For you will be hungry." Woe to you who now laugh! Because they will mourn and cry.
"Woe to you, when all men speak well of you! Because that is what your parents did with the false prophets.
"But to you who hear, I say: Love your enemies and do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you and pray for those who mistreat you.
To the one who strikes you on the cheek, also present the other; and whoever takes your cloak from you, do not deny the robe.
To anyone who asks you, give it; And whoever takes what is yours, do not ask again.
"And as you want men to do to you, so do you to them.
Because if they love those who love them, what is their merit? For sinners also love those who love them.
And if they do good to those who do good to them, what merit do they have? The sinners also do the same thing.
And if they lend to those from whom they expected to receive, what credit is that? For sinners also lend to sinners to receive the same.
"Rather, love your enemies and do good and lend without expecting any profit. Then your reward will be great and you will be sons of the Most High; for he is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked.
Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
"Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Give, and it will be given to you; good, tight, shaking and overflowing measure will be given to your lap. Because with the measure with which they measure, they will be measured again. "
Then he told them a parable: "Can a blind man guide another blind man? Will they not both fall into the pit?
The disciple is not superior to his teacher, but anyone who is fully instructed will be like his teacher.
Why do you look at the straw that is in your brother's eye but stop seeing the beam that is in your own eye?
How can you say to your brother, 'Brother, let me take the blade out of your eye,' without looking at the beam in your eye? Hypocrite! First remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see well to remove the blade that is in your brother's eye.
"It is not a good tree that bears bad fruit, nor is a bad tree that bears good fruit.
Because each tree is known for its fruit; for figs are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor are grapes harvested from a bush.
The good man, from the good treasure of his heart, presents the good; and the evil man, from the evil treasure of his heart, presents the evil. Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
"Why do they call me: 'Lord, Lord', and they don't do what I say?
I will show you what everyone who comes to me and hears my words is like.
He is like a man who, by building a house, dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood came, the torrent hit the house with force and could not move it because it had been well built.
But the one that hears and does not do is similar to a man who built his house on earth, without foundations. The torrent slammed into her; immediately fell and the ruin of that house was great. "