When Jesus finished all his words to the people who heard him, he went to Capernaum.
And the servant of a certain centurion, whom he greatly appreciated, was ill and about to die.
Hearing of Jesus, the centurion sent to him some elders of the Jews, asking him to come and save his servant.
When they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying: The centurion is worthy of your granting this;
Because he loves our people and it was he who built us the synagogue.
Jesus was going with them, but when he was no longer far from the house, the centurion sent some friends, saying: Lord, do not bother anymore, because I am not worthy that you enter under my roof;
that's why I didn't even consider myself worthy to come to you, just say the word and my servant will be healed.
For I too am a man placed under authority, and I have soldiers under my command; and I say to this one: "Go", and he goes; and to another: "Come", and he comes; and to my servant, "Do this," and he does it.
Hearing this, Jesus marveled at him, and turning, he said to the crowd that followed him, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith."
And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant healthy.
It happened shortly after Jesus went to a city called Nain; and his disciples went with him accompanied by a large crowd.
And when he approached the city gate, behold, they brought out a dead man, his mother's only son, and she was a widow; and a large group from the city was with her.
When he saw her, the Lord had compassion on her, and said to her: Don't cry.
And he came and touched the coffin; and those who carried it stopped. And Jesus said: Young man, I say to you: Get up!
He who had died sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.
Fear seized everyone, and they glorified God, saying: A great prophet has arisen among us, and: God has visited his people.
And this saying that was said about Him, spread throughout Judea and throughout the surrounding region.
Then John's disciples informed him of all these things.
And John calling two of his disciples, he sent them to the Lord, saying: Are you the one to come, or are we waiting for another?
When the men came to Him, they said: John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying: "Are you the one who is to come, or are we waiting for another?"
In that same hour he cured many of diseases and afflictions, and evil spirits, and he gave sight to many blind men.
And He answering said to them: Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: THE BLIND RECEIVE THE SIGHT, the lame walk, the lepers are clean and the deaf hear, the dead are RISEN and the GOSPEL IS ANNOUNCED TO THE POOR .
And blessed is he who is not scandalized by me.
When John's messengers left, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? See, those who dress in splendor and live in delight are in the palaces of kings.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and one who is more than a prophet.
This is the one of whom it is written: "BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY BEFORE YOU."
I tell you that among those born of women, there is no one older than Juan; however, the smallest in the kingdom of God is greater than him.
When all the people and the tax collectors heard him, they recognized the justice of God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the interpreters of the law rejected God's purposes for them, by not being baptized by John.
To what, then, will I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like?
They are similar to the boys who sit in the plaza and call each other, saying: "We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang lays, and you did not cry."
Because John the Baptist has come, who does not eat bread or drink wine, and you say: "He has a devil."
The Son of Man has come, who eats and drinks, and you say: "Look, a gluttonous man and a wine drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners."
But wisdom is justified by all her children.
One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him; And entering the house of the Pharisee, he sat down at the table.
And behold, there was a woman in the city who was a sinner, and when she found out that Jesus was sitting at the table in the Pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster bottle with perfume;
and getting behind him at his feet, crying, he began to water his feet with tears and dried them with the hairs of his head, kissed his feet and washed them with the perfume.
But when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself: If this were a prophet, he would know who and what kind of woman is touching him, who is a sinner.
And Jesus answering said to him: Simon, I have something to tell you: And he said *: Say, Master.
A certain lender had two debtors; one owed him five hundred denarii and the other fifty;
Not having anything to pay with, he generously forgave them both. Which of them, then, will love you the most?
Simon answered and said: I suppose the one who forgave him the most. And Jesus said to him: You have judged correctly.
And turning to the woman, he said to Simon: Do you see this woman? I entered your house and you did not give me water for my feet, but she has showered my feet with her tears and dried them with her hair.
You did not kiss me, but she, since I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet.
You didn't anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume.
Therefore I tell you that his sins, which are many, have been forgiven, because he loved very much; but who is forgiven little, loves little.
And to her he said: Your sins have been forgiven.
Those who were sitting at the table with Him began to say to each other: Who is this who even forgives sins?
But Jesus said to the woman: Your faith has saved you, go in peace.