And soon after, He began to tour the cities and villages, proclaiming and announcing the good news of the kingdom of God; with him were the twelve,
and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and diseases: Mary, called Magdalena, from whom seven demons had come out,
and Juana, Chuza's wife, Herod's steward, and Susana, and many others who contributed to their support from their personal property.
When a large crowd had gathered, and those who came to Him from various cities, He spoke to them in a parable:
The sower went out to sow his seed; And when he sowed it, a part fell along the road, and it was trampled and the birds of the sky ate it.
Another part fell on the rock, and as soon as it grew, it dried up, because it had no moisture.
Another part fell among the thorns; and the thorns, growing with it, drowned it.
And another part fell on good soil, and grew and produced a hundred-for-one harvest. And speaking these things, Jesus exclaimed: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
His disciples asked him what this parable meant,
And He said: To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the others I speak in parables, so that SEEING, THEY DO NOT SEE; AND HEARING, DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
The parable is this: the seed is the word of God.
And those along the way are the ones who have heard, but then the devil comes and snatches the word from their hearts, lest they believe and be saved.
And those on the rock are the ones who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no deep root; they believe for some time, and at the moment of temptation they succumb.
And the seed that fell among the thorns, these are the ones that have heard, and as they continue on their way they are drowned by the worries, riches and pleasures of life, and its fruit does not ripen.
But the seed in the good soil, these are those who have heard the word with a good and upright heart, and retain it, and bear fruit with their perseverance.
No one lights a lamp and covers it with a pot, or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a candlestick so that those who enter see the light.
For there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, and no secret that is not to be known and come to light.
Therefore, be careful how you hear; for to the one who has, the more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he believes he has will be taken from him.
So his mother and brothers got to where He was, but they couldn't get close to Him because of the crowd.
And they warned him: Your mother and your brothers are outside and want to see you.
But He answered and said to them: My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.
And one of those days, he entered a boat with his disciples, and said to them: Let's go to the other side of the lake. And they went to sea.
But while they were sailing, He fell asleep; and a violent storm descended on the lake, and they began to flood and were in danger.
And coming to Him, they woke Him up, saying: Master, Master, we are perishing! And He, rising up, rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and the calm stopped.
And He said to them: Where is your faith? But they were terrified and amazed, saying to each other: Who, then, is this who even commands the winds and the water and obeys him?
They sailed to the land of the Gadarenes which is on the opposite side of Galilee;
And when He came ashore, a man from the city, possessed by demons, met him and had not worn any clothing for a long time, nor lived in a house, but in the graves.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell before Him, and said in a loud voice: What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you not to torment me.
Because He commanded the unclean spirit to come out of man, because many times he had seized him, and he was bound with chains and shackles and under guard; in spite of everything he broke the bonds and was impelled by the demon to the deserts.
Then Jesus asked him: What is your name? And he said: Legion; Because a lot of demons have entered him.
And they begged him not to order them to go into the abyss.
And there was a herd of many pigs grazing there in the bush; and the demons begged him to allow them to enter the pigs. And He gave them permission.
The demons came out of the man and entered the pigs; and the herd rushed down the cliff into the lake, and they drowned.
And when those who cared for them saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the fields.
Then the people went out to see what had happened; And they came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone forth, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were filled with fear.
And those who had seen it told them how the demonized man had been healed.
Then all the people in the region around the Gadarenes asked Jesus to stay away from them, because they were in great fear. And He entering a boat, returned.
But the man from whom the demons had come begged him to allow him to accompany him; but He dismissed him, saying:
Go back to your house, and tell how great things God has done for you. And he left, proclaiming throughout the city how great things Jesus had done for him.
When Jesus returned, the crowd received him with joy, because everyone had been waiting for him.
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, who was a synagogue officer; and falling at the feet of Jesus he begged him to enter his house;
Because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, who was on the verge of death. But as He went, the crowd pressed on Him.
And a woman who had had a blood flow for twelve years and who had spent everything she had on doctors and could not be cured by anyone,
He approached Jesus from behind and touched the edge of his cloak, and instantly the flow of his blood ceased.
And Jesus said: Who is it that has touched me? While everyone denied it, Peter said, and those who were with him: Master, the crowds squeeze you and oppress you.
But Jesus said: Someone touched me, because I realized that power had come from me.
When the woman saw that she had not gone unnoticed, he came trembling, and falling before Him, he declared in the presence of all the people the reason why he had touched him, and how he had been instantly healed.
And He said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace
While he was still speaking, * someone * came from the synagogue officer's house, saying: Your daughter is dead; don't bother the Master anymore.
But when Jesus heard it, he replied: Do not be afraid; believe only, and she will be healed.
And when He arrived at the house, He did not allow anyone to enter with Him except Peter, John and James, and the girl's father and mother.
They all mourned and lamented her; but He said: Do not cry, because he is not dead, but sleeps.
And they mocked Him, knowing that she had died.
But He, taking her by the hand, cried out, saying: Child, get up!
Then his spirit returned to him, and he arose at once, and He commanded that they give him food.
And her parents were amazed; but He charged them not to tell anyone what had happened.
