And Jesus told them a parable to teach them that they should pray at all times, and not lose heart,
Saying: There was in a certain city a judge who neither feared God nor respected any man.
And there was a widow in that city, who came to him constantly, saying: "Do me justice for my adversary."
For some time he did not want to, but later he said to himself: "Although I neither fear God nor respect any man,
however, because this widow bothers me, I will do her justice; lest by coming continually I run out of patience. "
And the Lord said: Hear what the unjust judge said.
And will not God do justice to His elect, who cry out to Him day and night? Will it take a long time to respond?
I tell you, it will soon do them justice. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?
He also related this parable to some who trusted themselves as righteous, and despised others:
Two men went up to the temple to pray; one was a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
The Pharisee on his feet, prayed to himself in this way: "God, I thank you that I am not like other men: swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector.
I fast twice a week; I tithe everything I earn. "
But the tax collector, standing and at a distance, did not even want to raise his eyes to heaven, but hit his chest, saying: "God, have mercy on me, sinner."
I tell you that this one went down to his house justified but that one did not; For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
And they even brought very young children to touch them, but when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.
But Jesus, calling them to his side, said: Let the children come to me, and do not stop them, because of those who are like these is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, he who does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And a certain prominent man asked him, saying: Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Jesus answered him: Why do you call me good? No one is good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: "DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, DO NOT KILL, DO NOT HURT, DO NOT MAKE A FALSE TESTIMONY, HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER".
And he said: All this I have kept from my youth.
When Jesus heard this, he said to him: You still lack one thing; sell everything you have and distribute among the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But when he heard this, he was very sad, because he was extremely rich.
Looking at him, Jesus said: How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Those who heard this said, "And who can be saved?"
And He replied: The impossible for men is possible for God.
And Peter said: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
Then He said to them: Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left a house, or a woman, or brothers, or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
may he not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come, eternal life.
Taking the twelve aside, Jesus said to them, "Look, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled.
For it will be delivered to the Gentiles, and it will be mocked, insulted, and spit upon;
and after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise again.
But they did not understand any of this; This saying was hidden from them, and they did not understand what was being said to them.
And it came to pass that as he approached Jericho a blind man was sitting by the road begging.
Hearing a crowd go by, he asked what it was.
And they informed him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing.
Then he cried out, saying: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And those who went before rebuked him to be silent; but he shouted much more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
Jesus stopped and ordered that it be brought to him; and when he was close, he asked:
What do you want me to do for you? And he said, Lord, let him see again.
Jesus then said to him: Receive your sight, your faith has healed you.
And immediately his sight returned, and he continued to glorify God; When all the people saw that, they gave glory to God.