Again Jesus entered a synagogue; and there was a man there who had a dry hand.
And they watched him to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they could accuse him.
And he * said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and stand here in the middle.
Then he said to them, * Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save a life, or to kill? But they were silent.
And looking around them with anger, saddened by the hardness of their hearts, he said * to the man: Extend your hand. And he held it out, and his hand was healed.
But when the Pharisees came out, they immediately began plotting with the Herodians against Jesus, to see how they could destroy him.
Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee followed him; and also from Judea,
from Jerusalem, from Idumea, across the Jordan, and from the environs of Tire and Sidon; a great multitude, who, hearing all that Jesus was doing, came to Him.
And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, so that they would not oppress him;
for he had healed many, so that all who had afflictions would come upon him to touch him.
And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell before him and cried out, saying: You are the Son of God.
And he insistently warned them not to reveal their identity.
And he * went up into the mountain, called * those whom He wanted, and they came to Him.
And he appointed twelve, to be with him and to send them out to preach,
and so they had authority to cast out demons.
He appointed the twelve: Simon (whom he named Peter),
James, son of Zebedee, and John brother of James (whom he named Boanerges, which means, children of thunder);
Andrés, Felipe, Bartolomé, Mateo, Tomás, Jacobo, son of Alfeo, Tadeo, Simón el cananita;
and Judas Iscariot, the one who also handed him over.
Jesus * came to a house, and the crowd gathered * again, to the point that they could not even eat.
When his relatives heard this, they went to take charge of Him, because they said: He is beside himself.
And the scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said: He has Beelzebub; y: Cast out demons by the prince of demons.
And calling them to himself, he spoke to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot last.
And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot remain.
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot remain, but his end has come.
But no one can enter a strong man's house and loot his possessions if he does not tie him up first; then you can ransack your house.
Truly I tell you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and the blasphemies with which they blaspheme,
but anyone who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of eternal sin.
Because they said: He has an unclean spirit.
Then * his mother and his brothers arrived, and staying outside, they sent for him.
And there was a crowd sitting around Him, and they said to him, "Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside and looking for you.
And He answered them *, Who are my mother and my brothers?
And looking around those who were sitting in a circle around him, he said *: Behold my mother and my brothers.
Because anyone who does the will of God, that is my brother and sister and mother.