And he began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard, and fenced it with a wall, and dug a winepress, and built a tower, and leased it to farmers, and departed far.
And he sent a servant to the husbandmen in due time, to receive from the husbandmen the fruit of the vineyard.
But they, taking him, beat him and sent him empty-handed.
And another servant sent them again; but by stoning him, they struck him in the head and dismissed him in shame.
And he sent another one, and they killed this one; and so many others, some were beaten and others were killed.
Having therefore still a son of his, well loved, he finally sent him also to them, saying: They will have respect for my son.
But those farmers said among themselves: This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.
And catching him, they killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
What, then, will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy those farmers and give his vineyard to others.
Have you not even read this Scripture: The stone that the builders rejected has become the head of the corner;
the Lord has done this, and is it a wonderful thing in our eyes?
And they tried to arrest him, because they understood that he was saying that parable against them; but they feared the crowd, and leaving him, they went away.
And they sent him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians to surprise him in a word.
And when they came, they said to him: Master, we know that you are a true man and that you do not allow yourself to be influenced by anyone, because you do not look at the appearance of men, but you truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar, or not? Will we give, or will we not give?
Then he, as he understood their hypocrisy, said to them: Why are you tempting me? Bring me the coin so I can see it.
And they brought it to him and he said: Whose is this image and this inscription? And they said to him: Of Caesar.
And Jesus answering said to them, Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's. And they marveled at him.
Then the Sadducees came to him, saying that there is no resurrection, and they asked him, saying:
Master, Moses wrote to us that if someone's brother dies and leaves a wife, and does not leave children, that his brother marry her and raise offspring for his brother.
There were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and died, leaving no offspring;
then the second took her, and died, and this did not leave any descendants either; and the third, in the same way.
And the seven took it, and left no seed either; in the end, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, then, when they are resurrected, whose wife will she be? Because the seven had her as a wife.
Then Jesus answered and said to them: Do you not err because of this, because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God?
For when they rise from the dead, they will neither marry nor give in marriage, but will be like the angels who are in heaven.
And as for the dead rising, have you not read in the book of Moses how God spoke to him in the bush, saying: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob?
He is not God of the dead, but God of the living. So you guys miss a lot.
And one of the scribes, who had heard them arguing and knew that he had answered them well, approached him and asked him: What is the first commandment of all?
And Jesus answered him: The first commandment of all is: Hear, Israel: the Lord our God, the Lord is one.
So you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength; this is the main commandment.
And the second is similar to this: You will love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these.
Then the scribe said to him: Well, Master, you have said truth, that one is God, and there is no one other than him;
and loving him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul and with all the strength, and loving the neighbor as oneself, is more than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Then Jesus, seeing that he had answered wisely, said to him: You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to ask.
And teaching Jesus in the temple, he said: Why do the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
for David himself said by the Holy Ghost, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.
If David himself calls him Lord, how, then, is his son? And the great crowd heard him willingly.
And he said to them in his doctrine: Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long clothes and also the greetings in the squares,
and the first chairs in the synagogues and the first seats at dinners;
They devour widows' houses and, for pretending, they make long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation.
And as Jesus sat before the ark of the offering, he watched the people pour money into the ark; and many rich people threw a lot.
And a poor widow came and cast two white ones, which are one quadrant.
Then, calling his disciples, he said to them: Truly I say to you that this poor widow threw more than all those who have thrown the ark,
because everyone has thrown out what is left over; but this one, of its poverty threw everything what it had, all its sustenance.