He began to teach again by the sea; and a crowd came to him so large that he had to get into a boat that was in the sea, and he sat down; and the whole crowd was ashore at the seashore.
He taught them many things in parables; and he said to them in his teaching:
Hey! Behold, the sower went out to sow;
and it came to pass that when sowing a part of the seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and ate it.
Another part fell on a scree where it did not have much land; and immediately it sprouted for not having depth of earth.
But when the sun came up, it burned; and having no root, it dried up.
Another part fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew and drowned it, and it bore no fruit.
And other seeds fell into good soil, and growing and developing they bore fruit, and produced some thirty, others sixty, and others one hundredfold.
And He said: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
When he was left alone, his followers along with the twelve asked him about the parables.
And he said to them: The mystery of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but those who are outside receive everything in parables;
so that seeing they see but they do not perceive, and hearing they hear but they do not understand, lest they convert and be forgiven.
And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
The sower sows the word.
And these who are along the path where the word is sown, are those who as soon as they hear it, Satan instantly comes and takes the word that has been sown in them.
And in the same way, those in whom the seed was sown on stony ground are those who upon hearing the word immediately receive it with joy;
but they do not have deep roots in themselves, they are only temporary. So when affliction or persecution comes because of the word, they immediately stumble and fall.
Others are those in which the seed was sown among the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word,
but the worries of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires of other things come in and choke the word, and it becomes sterile.
And others are those in whom the seed was sown in good soil; who hear the word, accept it and bear fruit, some to thirty, others to sixty and others one hundred to one.
And he said to them: Does he bring a lamp to put it under a bushel or under the bed? Isn't it to put it in the limelight?
Because there is nothing hidden, if it is not so that it is manifested; nor has anything been secret, but for it to come to light.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
He also said to them: Be careful of what you hear. As you measure, it will be measured to you, and more will be given to you.
For from the one who has, more will be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away.
He also said: The kingdom of God is like a man who puts seed in the ground,
and he lies down and rises, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; how, he doesn't know.
The earth produces fruit by itself; first the leaf, then the ear, and then the ripe grain on the ear.
And when the fruit allows it, he immediately puts in the sickle, because the harvest time has come.
He also said: To what shall we compare the kingdom of God, or with what parable will we describe it?
It is like a mustard seed, which, when planted in the ground, although it is smaller than all the seeds in the ground,
however, when it is planted, it grows and becomes larger than all vegetables and sprouts large branches, so much so that the birds of the sky can nest under its shade.
With many parables like these he spoke the word to them, as they could hear it;
and without parables he did not speak to them, but explained everything privately to his own disciples.
That day, late in the afternoon, he said to them *: Let's go to the other side.
Dismissing the crowd, they took him * with them in the boat, as was; and there were other boats with Him.
But a violent storm arose *, and the waves were rushing on the boat in such a way that the boat was already flooded.
He was at the stern, sleeping on a headrest; Then they woke him up * and said to him: "Master, don't you care that we perish?
And rising up, he rebuked the wind, and said to the sea: Calm down, calm down! And the wind stopped, and a great calm ensued.
Then he said to them: Why are you afraid? How can you not have faith?
And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?