And when Jesus left the temple, one of his disciples said to him: Master, look at what stones and what buildings!
And Jesus, answering, said to him: Do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, which shall not be overthrown.
And sitting on the Mount of Olives, in front of the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him separately:
Tell us, when will these things be? And what sign will there be when all these things are to be accomplished?
And Jesus, answering them, began to say: See that no one deceives you,
for many will come in my name, saying: I am the Christ; and they will deceive many.
But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be disturbed, because it must be so; but it will not be the end yet.
For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be earthquakes in many places, and there will be famines and riots; early pain will be these.
But you look for yourselves, because they will hand you over to the councils, and in the synagogues you will be flogged; and you will be called before rulers and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them.
And it is necessary that the gospel first be preached to all nations.
And when they bring you to deliver you, do not worry about what you have to say, nor think about it; but what is given to you in that hour, speak that, because it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents and kill them.
And you will be hated by all because of my name; but he who endures to the end will be saved.
But when you see the devastating abomination of which the prophet Daniel spoke, put where it should not be (whoever reads, understand), then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
and he who is on the roof does not go down to the house or enter to take something from his house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who breed in those days!
Pray, then, that your flight will not occur in winter.
For those days will be of affliction as there has never been since the beginning of God's creation until this time, nor will there be.
And if the Lord had not shortened those days, no meat would be saved; but because of the elect that he chose, he shortened those days.
And then, if anyone says to you: Behold, here is the Christ; or, behold, there he is, do not believe him.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will do signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect.
But you look; I have told you everything beforehand.
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will darken and the moon will not shine;
and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken;
and then they will see the Son of Man, who will come in the clouds with great power and glory.
And then he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of the sky.
From the fig tree learn the parable: When its branch is already tender, and the leaves are sprouting, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass without all these things happening.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Look, watch and pray, because you do not know when the time will be.
He is like the man who, going away, left his house and gave authority to his servants, and to each his task, and to the porter he commanded to watch.
Watch therefore, for you do not know when the lord of the house will come; whether at sunset, or at midnight, or at the crowing of the rooster, or in the morning;
so that when he comes suddenly, he doesn't find you sleeping.
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch.