Principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Son of God.
As it is written in the prophet Isaiah: BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY.
VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "PREPARE THE WAY OF THE LORD, MAKE HIS PATHS RIGHT."
John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching the baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
And the whole region of Judea came to him, and all the people of Jerusalem, and confessing their sins, were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
Juan was dressed in camel's hair, had a leather belt around his waist, and ate locusts and wild honey.
And he preached, saying: After me comes one who is more powerful than I, whom I am not worthy to untie, bowing down, the strap of his sandals.
I baptized you with water, but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John at the Jordan.
And immediately, when he came out of the water, he saw that the heavens were opening, and that the Spirit like a dove descended on Him;
And a voice came from heaven, saying: You are my beloved Son, in you I have been pleased.
The Spirit immediately prompted him * to go into the desert.
And he was in the desert forty days, being tempted by Satan; and he was among the wild beasts, and the angels served him.
After John had been imprisoned, Jesus came to Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God,
and saying: The time has come and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe the gospel.
While walking along the Sea of ​​Galilee, she saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net in the sea, because they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And instantly leaving the nets, they followed him.
Going a little further, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and his brother John, who were also in the boat, mending the nets.
And instantly he called them; and they, leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the day laborers, went after him.
* They entered Capernaum; and immediately, on the Sabbath, when Jesus entered the synagogue, he began to teach.
And they admired his teaching; because he taught them as one who has authority, and not as scribes.
And behold, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, who began to cry out,
saying: What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
Jesus rebuked him, saying: Shut up and get out of him!
Then the unclean spirit, convulsing him, cried out with a loud voice and came out of him.
And they were all so amazed that they argued among themselves, saying: What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits and they obey him.
And immediately his fame spread everywhere, throughout the region around Galilee.
Immediately after leaving the synagogue, they went to the house of Simón and Andrés, with Jacobo and Juan.
And Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever; and they immediately spoke to her about her.
Jesus approached her, and taking her by the hand he lifted her up, and the fever left her; and she served them.
In the late afternoon, after sunset, they brought him all who were sick and possessed.
And the whole city had piled up at the gate.
And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and he did not let the demons speak, because they knew who he was.
Rising very early in the morning, when it was still dark, he went out and went to a lonely place, and there he prayed.
And Simon and his companions went out to look for him;
They found him and said to him *: Everyone is looking for you.
And He said to them *: We are going to another place, to the neighboring towns, so that I can preach there also, because that is why I have come.
And he went all over Galilee, preaching in his synagogues and casting out demons.
And * a leper came to him, pleading with him, and kneeling down said to him: If you want, you can cleanse me.
Moved to compassion, Jesus reached out his hand, touched him, and said to him: "I want to; Be clean.
And instantly the leprosy left him and he was clean.
Then Jesus admonished him severely and immediately dismissed him,
And he said to him: "Look, do not say anything to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.
But he, as soon as he left, began to openly proclaim it and spread the fact, to the point that Jesus could no longer enter any city publicly, but stayed outside in unpopulated places; and they came to Him from everywhere.
