As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples said: "Master, look at what stones and what buildings!"
And Jesus said to him, "Do you see these great buildings?" Here there will be no stone on stone that is not knocked down.
As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives in front of the temple, Pedro, Jacobo, Juan and Andrés asked him separately:
"Tell us, when will these things happen?" And what sign will there be when all these things are about to be fulfilled?
Jesus began to say to them, "See that no one deceives you.
Many will come in my name saying "I am", and they will deceive many.
But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be troubled. It must be so, but it is not yet the end.
For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes everywhere. There will be famines. These are the beginning of pain.
"But you look for yourselves. For you will hand them over to the councils, and you will be scourged in the synagogues. For my sake you will be brought before governors and kings, as a testimony to them.
The gospel must first be preached to all nations.
When you take them to deliver them, don't worry about what they have to say. Rather, speak what is given to you at that hour; because it is not you who speak but the Holy Spirit.
The brother will deliver his brother to death, and the father his son. Children will rise up against their parents and make them die.
And you will be hated by all because of my name. But he who endures to the end will be saved.
"But when they see that the abomination of desolation has been established where it should not be (whoever reads, understand), then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
He who is on the roof does not go down or enter to get something out of his house,
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his mantle.
Woe to those who are pregnant and those who breed in those days!
So pray that it does not happen in winter.
For those days will be tribulation like there has never been since the beginning of creation that God created until now, nor will there ever be.
If the Lord had not shortened those days, no one would be saved; but, because of the elect that he chose, he has shortened those days.
"So if someone says to you, 'Behold, here is the Christ', or 'Behold, there is,' do not believe him.
For false christs and false prophets will arise, and will do signs and wonders to deceive the elect, if possible.
But you, look! I have told you everything beforehand.
"Then in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will darken and the moon will not shine.
The stars will fall from the sky and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
Then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
Then he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the sky.
"From the fig tree learn the parable: When your branch is already tender and its leaves are sprouting, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass until all these things happen.
Heaven and earth will pass but my words will not pass.
"But about that day or the hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, not even the Son but only the Father.
Look and watch because you don't know when the time will be.
It will be like the man who left his house when he went on a trip and gave authority to his servants, each one his work, and he ordered the doorman to watch.
Watch, then, because you do not know when the Lord of the house will come, be it in the afternoon, at midnight, to the crowing of the rooster or in the morning;
lest when I come back suddenly I find them sleeping.
What I say to you, to all I say: Watch!