And when the Sabbath passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the mother of James, and Salome bought aromatic spices to go anoint him.
And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they went to the tomb, just after sunrise.
And they said among themselves: Who will remove the stone from the entrance of the tomb?
But when they looked, they saw the stone already removed, which was very large.
And when they entered the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, wearing long white clothes, and they were shocked.
But he said to them: Do not be afraid; you are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, the one who was crucified; He has risen, he is not here; Here is the place where they put him.
But go, tell his disciples, and Peter, that he is going ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him, as he told you.
And they fled from the grave, because trembling and fear had entered them. And they said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid.
But after Jesus had risen in the morning, on the first day of the week, he first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
As she went, she let those who had been with him know that they were sad and crying.
And they, when they heard that he lived and had been seen by her, they did not believe it.
But then he appeared in another way to two of them who were walking, going to the field.
And they went and made it known to the others, but they did not even believe them.
Finally he appeared to the eleven themselves, while they were sitting at the table, and reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who had seen him resurrected.
And he said to them: Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.
And these signs will follow those who believe: In my name they will cast out demons, they will speak new languages;
they will take snakes in their hands and if they drink something deadly it will not harm them; they will lay hands on the sick and heal.
And the Lord, after he spoke to them, was received up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
And they, going out, preached everywhere, the Lord helping them and confirming the word with the signs that followed it. Amen.