And he said to them: Truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after he has come in power.
Six days later, Jesus took * Peter with him, Jacoboy with John, and took them * apart, alone, to a high mountain; and was transfigured before them;
and their garments became resplendent, very white, just as no laundress on earth can make them white.
And Elijah appeared to them along with Moses, and they were talking to Jesus.
Then Peter, intervening, said * to Jesus: Rabbi, it is good to be here; Let's make three branches, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
Because he didn't know what to say, because they were terrified.
Then a cloud formed, covering them, and a voice came out of the cloud: This is my beloved Son; Hear him.
And immediately they looked around, but they no longer saw anyone with them, but Jesus alone.
When they came down from the mountain, he ordered them not to tell anyone what they had seen, until the Son of Man rose from the dead.
And they kept to themselves what was said, discussing among themselves what it would mean to rise from the dead.
And they asked him, saying: Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And He said to them: It is true that Elijah, by coming first, will restore all things. And yet, how is it written of the Son of Man who suffers much and is despised?
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did what they wanted, just as it is written about him.
When they returned to the disciples, they saw a large crowd surrounding them, and some scribes arguing with them.
Immediately, when the whole crowd saw Jesus, they were surprised, and running towards Him, they greeted him.
And He asked them: What do you discuss with them?
And one of the crowd answered him: Master, I brought you my son who has a dumb spirit,
and whenever she gets hold of him, he knocks him down, and he froths, gnash his teeth and is consumed. And I told your disciples to drive him out, but they couldn't.
Jesus answered them * and said: O unbelieving generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I have to bear you? Bring it to me!
And they brought it to him. And when the spirit saw Jesus, it instantly shook the boy violently, and the boy, falling to the ground, was rolling around, foaming.
Jesus asked the father: How long has this been happening to him? And he replied: From his childhood.
And many times he has thrown it into the fire and also into the water to destroy it. But if you can do something, have mercy on us and help us.
Jesus said to him, "What if you can?" All things are possible to him who believes.
Instantly the boy's father screamed and said: I believe; help me in my disbelief.
When Jesus saw a crowd gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him: Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you: Get out of him and do not enter him again.
And after shouting and shaking him with terrible convulsions, he came out: and the boy was as dead, so much so that most of them said: He is dead!
But Jesus, taking him by the hand, raised him up, and he stood up.
When Jesus entered the house, his disciples asked him in private: Why we could not cast him out?
And He said to them: This class can go out with nothing, but with prayer.
Leaving there, they were passing through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know it.
Because he taught his disciples, and said to them: The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him; and after he is dead, after three days he will rise again.
But they did not understand what he was saying, and they were afraid to ask him.
And they came to Capernaum; and being already in the house, I asked them: What were you discussing along the way?
But they were silent, because on the way they had discussed among themselves which of them was the oldest.
Sitting down, he called the twelve and said to them *: If anyone wishes to be the first, he will be the last of all and the servant of all.
And taking a child, he put him in their midst; and taking him in his arms he said to them:
Whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me; And whoever receives me does not receive me, but the one who sent me.
John said to him: Master, we saw one casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him, because he did not follow us.
But Jesus said: Do not stop him, because there is no one who works a miracle in my name, and who can immediately speak ill of me.
For he who is not against us is for us.
Because whoever gives you a glass of water to drink, because of your name, since you are followers of Christ, in truth I tell you that he will not lose his reward.
And anyone who stumbles one of these little ones who believe in me, it would be better if they had tied a millstone around his neck that moves an ass, and threw him into the sea.
And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off; It is better for you to enter life with one hand, than with both hands to go to hell, to the inextinguishable fire,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
And if your foot is an occasion for sin, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life lame, than having both feet to be thrown into hell,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
And if your eye causes you to sin, remove it; it is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
Because they will all be salted with fire.
Salt is good; but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what will you season it? Have salt in you and be at peace with one another.