Rising from there, Jesus went * to the region of Judea and across the Jordan; and the crowds * gathered again together with Him, and once more, as He was accustomed, He taught them.
And some Pharisees came to him, and to test him, they asked him if it was lawful for a man to divorce his wife.
And He answering said to them, What did Moses command you?
And they said: Moses allowed the man to write LETTER OF DIVORCE AND TO REPUT IT.
But Jesus said to them: Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this commandment.
But from the beginning of creation, God MADE THEM MALE AND FEMALE.
FOR THIS REASON MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND HIS MOTHER,
AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH; therefore they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has united, no man separates.
And already in the house, the disciples asked him again about this.
And He said to them *: Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her;
and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they brought him children to touch; and the disciples rebuked them.
But when Jesus saw this, he was outraged and said to them: Let the children come to me; do not prevent it, for of those who are like these is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And taking them in his arms, he blessed them, laying his hands on them.
As he was leaving to go on his way, one came running, and kneeling before him, he asked him: Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? No one is good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: "DO NOT KILL, DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, DO NOT HURT, DO NOT MAKE A FALSE TESTIMONY, do not disappoint, HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER".
And he said to him: Master, all this I have kept from my youth.
Looking at him, Jesus loved him and said: One thing you lack: go and sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But he, saddened by these words, left sad, because he owned many goods.
Looking around, Jesus * said to his disciples: How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answering again, said to them *: Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
They were even more amazed, saying to each other: And who can be saved?
Looking at them Jesus said *: It is impossible for men, but not for God, because all things are possible for God.
Then Peter began to say to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
Jesus said: Truly I say to you: There is no one who has left a house, or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children or land because of me and because of the gospel,
may he not receive a hundred times more now at this time: houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands along with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them; and they were perplexed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve aside again, he began to tell them what was going to happen to him:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Gentiles.
And they will mock Him and spit on Him, scourge Him and kill Him, and three days later He will rise again.
And Jacob and John, the two sons of Zebedee, approached him, saying: Master, we want you to do for us what we ask of you.
And He said to them: What do you want me to do for you?
They said to him, Grant that in your glory we may sit one on your right and the other on your left.
But Jesus said to them: You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the cup that I drink, or be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
And they said to him: We can. And Jesus said to them: The cup that I drink, you will drink; and you will be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized,
but whoever you sit on my right or on my left, it is not mine to grant it, but it is for those who have been prepared.
Hearing this, the ten began to be indignant against James and John.
And calling them to himself, Jesus said to them *: You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and that their great ones exercise authority over them.
But among you it is not so, but any of you who wants to become great will be your servant,
and anyone of you who wishes to be the first will be a servant to all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
Then they * came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to shout and say: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And many rebuked him to be silent, but he cried much more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
And Jesus stopped and said: Call him. And they called * the blind man, saying: Cheer up! Get up, he calls you.
And throwing down his cloak, he jumped up and went to Jesus.
And turning to him, Jesus said to him: What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man answered him: Raboni, let him recover his sight.
And Jesus said to him: Go, your faith has healed you. And instantly his sight returned, and he followed him down the road.