And they reached the other side of the sea, to the land of the Gadarenes.
And when He got out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit came to meet Him from the tombs,
that he had his dwelling among the graves; and no one could tie him even with chains anymore;
Because many times he had been bound with shackles and chains, but he had broken the chains and smashed the shackles, and no one was strong enough to dominate him.
And always, night and day, he walked among the tombs and in the mountains screaming and hurting himself with stones.
When he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before Him;
And shouting with a loud voice, he said *: What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore you by God that you don't torment me.
Because Jesus said to him: Get out of the man, you unclean spirit.
And he asked him: What is your name? And he said to him *: My name is Legion, because we are many.
Then he begged him insistently not to send them off the ground.
And there was a great herd of pigs grazing by the mountain.
And the demons begged him, saying: Send us the pigs so that we can enter them.
And He gave them permission. And when the unclean spirits came out, they entered the pigs; and the herd, about two thousand, rushed down a cliff into the sea, and drowned in the sea.
And those who looked after the pigs fled and told about it in the city and in the fields. And people came to see what had happened.
And they * came * to Jesus, and saw * the one who had been possessed with a devil, seated, clothed and in his right mind, the same man who had had the legion; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it described to them how this had happened to the demoniac, and that of the pigs.
And they began to beg him to leave their region.
As He entered the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him to let him accompany him.
But Jesus did not allow it, but said to him: "Go home, to yours, and tell them how great the Lord has done for you, and how he had mercy on you.
And he left, and began to proclaim in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him; and everyone was amazed.
When Jesus again passed in the boat on the other side, a large crowd gathered around Him; so He stayed by the sea.
And one of the synagogue officers, named Jairus, came, and when he saw him, he fell down * at his feet.
And he begged * him insistently, saying: My little daughter is on the verge of death; I beg you to come and put your hands on it to heal and live.
Jesus went with him; and a great crowd followed and oppressed him.
And a woman who had had blood flow for twelve years,
and he had suffered a lot at the hands of many doctors, and he had spent everything he had without profit, but on the contrary, had worsened;
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him from the crowd and touched his cloak.
Because he said: If I just touch his clothes, I will heal.
Instantly the source of her blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her grief.
And immediately Jesus, realizing that power had come from Him, turning among the people, said: Who has touched my clothes?
And his disciples said to him: You see that the crowd oppresses you, and you say: "Who touched me?"
But He looked around to see the woman who had touched him.
Then the woman, fearful and trembling, realizing what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told him the whole truth.
And Jesus said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace and be healed of your affliction.
While I was still speaking, they * came * from the synagogue officer's house, saying: Your daughter is dead, why are you still bothering the Master?
But Jesus, hearing what was being said, * said to the synagogue officer: Fear not, believe only.
And he did not allow anyone to go with him but only Peter, James and John, the brother of James.
They * went to the house of the synagogue officer, and Jesus saw * the commotion, and those who were crying and wailing.
And going in he said to them *: Why are you making a fuss and crying? The girl is not dead, but is asleep.
And they mocked Him. But He, casting out all, took * with him the father and mother of the child, and those who were with Him, and * entered where the child was.
And taking the girl by the hand, he said *: Talita cum (which translated means: Girl, I tell you, get up!).
Instantly the girl got up and began to finish, because she was twelve years old. And instantly they were completely stunned.
He then gave them strict orders that no one should find out about this; and said to feed the girl.