And again he entered the synagogue; and there was a man there who had a dry hand.
And they stalked him to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, to accuse him.
Then she said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and stand in the middle.
And he said to them, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath, or to do evil? Save life, or take it away? But they were silent.
And looking around them angrily, saddened by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man: Extend your hand. And he held it out, and his hand was restored to health.
So the Pharisees came out and took counsel with the Herodians against him to kill him.
But Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee followed, and from Judea,
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and across the Jordan. And those around Tire and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came to him.
And he told his disciples to have the boat always ready for him, because of the crowd, so that they would not oppress him.
Because he had healed many, so that they fell upon him, to touch him, all who had plagues.
And when the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, saying: You are the Son of God!
But he rebuked them a lot so that they would not make him known.
And he went up the mountain and called to himself those whom he wanted; and they came to him.
And he appointed twelve, to be with him, and to send them out to preach,
and that they had authority to heal diseases and cast out demons:
Simon, whom he named Pedro;
and to Jacobo son of Zebedeo and to Juan, brother of Jacobo; and they were called Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder;
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, the one who handed him over. And they entered a house.
And the people crowded again, so that they could not even eat bread.
And when theirs heard it, they came to seize him, because they said: He is beside himself.
And the scribes who had come from Jerusalem said that he had Beelzebub, and that by the prince of demons he cast out demons.
And having called them, he said to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if any kingdom is divided against itself, such a kingdom cannot remain.
And if any house is divided against itself, such a house cannot remain.
And if Satan rises up against himself and is divided, he cannot remain, but his end has come.
No one can loot the jewels of a strong man, entering his house, if before he does not tie him; then he will ransack his house.
Truly I tell you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and the blasphemies with which they blaspheme;
but anyone who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is exposed to eternal judgment.
Because they had said: He has an unclean spirit.
Later his brothers and his mother came, and staying outside, they sent to call him.
And the people were sitting around him, and they said to him: Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside and looking for you.
And he answered them, saying: Who is my mother and who are my brothers?
And looking at those who were sitting around him, he said: Behold my mother and my brothers.
Because whoever does the will of God, that is my brother, and my sister and my mother.