Two days were left before Easter and the feast of unleavened bread; and the chief priests and scribes sought how to deceive him and kill him;
because they said: Not during the party, lest there be a riot in the town.
And while He was in Bethany, sitting at the table in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came with an alabaster bottle of very expensive perfume of pure tuberose; and he broke the jar and poured it on the head of Jesus.
But some were outraged and said to each other: What was this waste of perfume made for?
Because this perfume could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given the money to the poor. And they rebuked her.
But Jesus said: Leave her; Why do you bother her? You have done a good deed with me.
Because you will always have the poor with you; and when you want you can do them good; but you won't always have me.
She has done what she could; he has anticipated anointing my body for burial.
And truly I say to you: Wherever the gospel is preached in the whole world, it will also speak of what it has done, to his memory.
Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to deliver Jesus to them.
When they heard it, they were happy and promised to give him money. And he was looking for how to deliver him at an opportune moment.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb was being sacrificed, his disciples said to him, * Where do you want us to go and make arrangements for you to eat Easter?
And he sent * two of his disciples, and said to them *: Go into the city, and there a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you; follow him;
and where he enters, tell the owner of the house: "The Master says:" Where is my room where I can eat Easter with my disciples? "".
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and prepared; make preparations for us there.
So the disciples went out and came to the city, and found everything just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
In the evening * He arrived with the twelve.
And while sitting at the table eating, Jesus said: Truly I tell you, one of you will hand me over; the one who eats with me.
They began to get sad and say one by one: Is it me?
And He said to them: It is one of the twelve, the one that dips with me in the plate.
Because the Son of Man leaves as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.
And while they were eating, he took bread, and having blessed it, he broke it, gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body.
And having a drink, after giving thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it.
And he said to them: This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed by many.
Truly I say to you, I will no longer drink the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
After singing a hymn, they left for the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them, "All of you will turn away, for it is written, 'I WILL HIT THE SHEPHERD, AND THE SHEEP WILL BE SCATTERED.'
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter said to him, "Even if everyone departs, I will not, however.
And Jesus said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.
But Pedro insistently repeated: Even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same thing too.
And they * came to a place called Gethsemane, and he said * to his disciples: Sit here until I have prayed.
And he took Peter, James, and John with him, and he began to grieve and be greatly distressed.
And he said to them *: My soul is very afflicted, to the point of death; stay here and watch.
Going a little ahead, he fell to the ground and prayed that, if possible, that hour would pass from Him.
And he said: Abba, Father! For you all things are possible; take this cup away from me, but not what I want, but what you want.
Then he * came * and found them * sleeping, and said * to Peter: Simon, are you sleeping? Couldn't you watch even for an hour?
Watch and pray that you do not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the meat is weak.
He left again and prayed, saying the same words.
And he came again and found them sleeping, because his eyes were very heavy with sleep; and they did not know what to answer him.
* Came a third time, and said to them *: Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough already; The time has come; behold, the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up, let's go; Look, the one who gives me is near.
At that moment, while He was still speaking, * Judas, one of the twelve, arrived, accompanied by a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; Turn him on and take him safely.
And having arrived, he immediately approached Him saying: Rabbi! And kissed him.
Then they laid hands on him and seized him.
But one of those who were there, drawing the sword, struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
And Jesus addressing them said to them, Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest me as against a thief?
Every day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not arrest me; but this has happened so that the Scriptures are fulfilled.
And leaving him, they all fled.
A certain young man followed him, dressed only in a sheet over his naked body; and they caught him *;
but he, leaving the sheet, escaped naked.
And they brought Jesus to the high priest; and all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes assembled *.
Peter followed him from afar into the courtyard of the high priest; he was sitting with the bailiffs, warming himself over the fire.
And the chief priests and the whole council tried to obtain testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they could not find him.
Because many gave false testimony against Him, but their testimonies did not coincide.
And some, rising up, gave false testimony against Him, saying:
We heard him say, "I will destroy this temple made by hands, and in three days I will build another one not made by hands."
And even in this their testimony did not coincide.
Then the high priest arose, stood in the middle, and asked Jesus, saying, "You answer nothing? What do these testify against you?
But He was silent and answered nothing. The high priest asked him again, saying: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Jesus said: I am; and you will see the SON OF MAN SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND OF POWER AND COMING WITH THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN.
Then the high priest, tearing his clothes, said *: What need do we have for more witnesses?
You have heard the blasphemy; what do you think? And they all condemned him, saying that he was a prisoner of death.
And some began to spit on him, to cover his face and to punch him, and to say to him: Prophesy! And the bailiffs received him in the face.
As Peter was down in the courtyard, * one of the servants of the high priest came,
When she saw Peter warming up, she looked at him and said *: You were also with Jesus the Nazarene.
But he went on, saying: I neither know nor understand what you are talking about. And he went out to the portal, and a rooster crowed.
When the servant girl saw him, she again began to say to those who were there: This is one of them.
But he denied it again. And soon after those who were there said to Peter again: Surely you are one of them, because you are also a Galilean.
But he began to curse and swear: I do not know this man of whom you speak!
Instantly a rooster crowed a second time. Then Peter remembered what Jesus had told him: Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And she began to cry.