As they approached * Jerusalem, by Bethphage and Bethany, near the Mount of Olives, he sent * two of his disciples,
And he said to them, "Go to the village in front of you, and as soon as you enter it, you will find a tied colt on which no one has yet ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone says to you: "Why are you doing that?", Say: "The Lord needs it"; and it will be returned here right away.
They went and found a colt tied by the door, outside on the street, and they untied it *.
And some of those who were there said to them: What are you doing untying the colt?
They answered them just as Jesus had told them, and gave them permission.
So they brought * the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and Jesus sat on it.
And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread branches that they had cut from the fields.
Those who went ahead and those who followed him shouted: Hosanna! BLESSED IS HE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD;
Blessed the kingdom of our coming father David; Hosanna in the high!
And he entered Jerusalem, came to the temple, and after looking at everything around him, he left for Bethany with the twelve, the hour being late.
The next day, when they left Bethany, Jesus was hungry.
And seeing from afar a fig tree with leaves, he went to see if perhaps he could find something in it; when he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, because it was not the time for figs.
And Jesus, speaking to the fig tree, said to him: Never again should anyone eat fruit of you, and his disciples were listening to him.
* Came to Jerusalem; And when Jesus entered the temple he began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple, overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold the doves;
and he did not allow anyone to transport any object through the temple.
And he taught them, saying: Is it not written: "MY HOUSE SHALL BE CALLED A HOUSE OF PRAYER FOR ALL NATIONS"? But you have made it CAVE OF THIEVES.
The chief priests and scribes heard this and were looking for ways to destroy him, because they were afraid of him, for the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching.
And when it got dark, they used to go out of town.
In the morning, as they passed, they saw the dried fig tree from the roots.
Then Peter, remembering, said to him: "Rabbi, look, the fig tree that you cursed has dried up.
And Jesus answered *, saying: Have faith in God.
Truly I say to you that anyone who says to this mountain: "Take off and throw yourself into the sea", and do not doubt in your heart, but believe that what you say is going to happen will be granted.
That is why I tell you that all the things for which you pray and ask, believe that you have already received them, and they will be granted to you.
And when you are praying, forgive if you have something against someone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive your transgressions.
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions.
* They came back to Jerusalem; and when Jesus was walking through the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders approached him,
and they said to him: By what authority do you do these things, or who gave you the authority to do this?
And Jesus said to them: I will also ask you a question; Answer it for me, and then I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me
And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say: "Then why didn't you believe him?"
But if we say: "Of men"? But they feared the crowd, because everyone considered that John had truly been a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said *: We do not know. And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
