And rising up from there, he went to the regions of Judea and beyond the Jordan. The crowds came to him again, and again he taught them as he was accustomed to.
Then some Pharisees came to test him, and asked him if it was lawful for a husband to divorce his wife.
But he answered and said to them, "What did Moses command you?"
They said, "Moses allowed her to write a divorce letter and fire her."
But Jesus said to them, "Before your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female.
For this reason the man will leave his father and mother, and will be united to his wife;
and the two will be one flesh. So, they are no longer two but one meat.
Therefore, what God has united does not separate man.
At home his disciples asked him again about this.
He said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her."
And if the woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they presented him with children to touch, but the disciples rebuked them.
Seeing him, Jesus was outraged and said: "Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them because of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly, I say to you, anyone who does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will never enter it. "
Then, taking them in his arms, he put his hands on them and blessed them.
As he was leaving to continue on his way, a man came running, got down on his knees in front of him and asked: "Good teacher, what shall I do to obtain eternal life?"
But Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me 'good'?" None is good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother.
But he said to him: "Master, I have kept all this from my youth."
Then, when Jesus looked at him, he loved him and said: —One thing you lack: Go, sell everything you have and give it to the poor; and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But he, dejected by this word, left sad because he had many possessions.
Then Jesus, looking around, said to his disciples: "How hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
The disciples were amazed at his words; but Jesus, answering again, said to them: “Little children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
But they were even more stunned saying to each other: "And who can be saved?"
Then Jesus, looking at them, said: —It is impossible for men, but not for God. Because for God all things are possible.
Pedro began to say to him: “Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
Jesus said to him, "Truly I tell you, there is no one who has left a house, or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or fields, because of me and the gospel,
may he not receive a hundred times more now in this time: houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children and fields, with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life.
But many firsts will be last, and last ones first.
They were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was ahead of them. They were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. Then, taking the twelve apart again, he began to declare the things that were about to happen to him:
“Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Gentiles.
They will mock him, spit on him, flog him and kill him; and after three days he will rise again.
Then Jacobo and Juan, sons of Zebedeo, approached him and said: —Master, we want you to grant us what we ask for.
He said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"
They said, "Grant that we may sit in your glory, one on your right and the other on your left."
Then Jesus said to them, "You don't know what you are asking for." Can they drink the cup that I drink, or be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
They said, "We can." And Jesus said to them, "They will drink the cup that I drink, and they will be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized."
But sitting on my right or on my left is not mine to grant, it is for whom it is prepared.
When the ten heard it, they began to get angry with Jacobo and Juan.
But Jesus called them and said: —You know that those who are held as princes of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
But it is not so among you. Rather, anyone who longs to become great among you will be your servant,
and anyone who longs to be first among you will be the servant of all.
Because the Son of Man did not come to be served either, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Then they reached Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a large crowd, the blind Bartimaeus, son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to shout saying: —Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Many scolded him to keep quiet, but he shouted even louder: "Son of David, have mercy on me!"
Then Jesus stopped and sent for him. They called the blind man saying, "Have confidence." Get up. He calls you.
Then he, throwing off his cloak, got up and went to Jesus.
And Jesus answered him saying, "What do you want me to do for you?" The blind man said to him, "Rabbi, may I get my sight back."
Jesus said to him, "Go away." Your faith has saved you. Instantly he regained his sight and followed Jesus on the road.
