The Pharisees, and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, gathered around Him;
and they saw that some of his disciples ate the bread with unclean hands, that is, without washing.
(Because the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands carefully, thus observing the tradition of the elders;
and when they return from the plaza, they do not eat unless they wash; and there are many other things that they have received to observe, such as the washing of the glasses, the jugs and the copper vessels.)
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him *: Why do not your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with unclean hands?
And He said to them: Isaiah prophesied well of you, hypocrites, as it is written: "THIS PEOPLE WITH THE LIPS HONOR ME, BUT THEIR HEART IS VERY FAR FROM ME.
MORE IN VAIN THEY WORSHIP ME, TEACHING LIKE DOCTRINE PRECEPTS OF MEN. "
Leaving the commandment of God, you cling to the tradition of men.
He also said to them: You cunningly violate God's command to keep your tradition.
Because Moses said: "HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER"; and: "HE WHO SPEAKS EVIL OF HIS FATHER OR MOTHER, DIE";
but you say: "If a man says to the father or the mother:" Anything of mine with which you could benefit is corban (that is, offering to God) "";
you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or mother;
thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you have transmitted, and you do many things similar to these.
And calling the crowd again, he said: Listen to me all and understand:
there is nothing outside of man that when entering him can contaminate him; but what comes out from within man is what contaminates man.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable.
And He said to them *: Are you also so lacking in understanding? Do you not understand that everything that enters outside man cannot contaminate him,
because it does not enter your heart, but the stomach, and is eliminated? (Thus declaring all food clean.)
And he said: What comes out of man, that is what contaminates man.
Because from inside, from the hearts of men, come evil thoughts, fornication, robbery, homicide, adultery,
greed, evil, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride and folly.
All these evils from within come out, and contaminate man.
Rising from there, he went to the region of Tire, and entering a house, he did not want anyone to know it, but he could not go unnoticed;
but immediately, on hearing of Him, a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, went and fell at His feet.
The woman was a Gentile, Syrophoenician by birth; and begged him to cast the demon out of his daughter.
And He said to him: Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
But she answered and said to him *: It is true, Lord; but even the little dogs under the table eat the crumbs of the children.
And He said to him: For this answer, go; the demon has left your daughter.
When she returned home, she found that the girl was lying on the bed, and that the demon had come out.
Leaving the region of Tire again, he passed through Sidon and arrived at the Sea of ​​Galilee, crossing the Decapolis region.
And they brought * him who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and begged him * to lay his hand on him.
Then Jesus, taking him apart from the crowd, alone, put his fingers in his ears, and spitting, touched his tongue with saliva;
and raising his eyes to heaven, he sighed deeply and said *: Effatá !, that is: Open up!
And instantly his ears opened, and the impediment of his tongue disappeared, and he spoke clearly.
And Jesus ordered them to tell no one; but the more he ordered it, the more they proclaimed it.
And they were amazed in a great way, saying: He has done everything well; He even makes the deaf hear and the dumb speak.