After the Sabbath day, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome, bought aromatic spices to go anoint him.
And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they * arrived at the tomb when the sun had risen.
And they said to each other: Who will remove the stone from the entrance to the tomb?
When they looked up, they saw * that the stone, although extremely large, had been removed.
And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in white clothing; and they were scared.
But he * said to them, "Do not be afraid; you are looking for Nazarene Jesus, the crucified. He has risen, he is not here; look at the place where they put him.
But go, tell his disciples and Peter: "He goes ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him, just as he told you."
And when they came out, they fled from the grave, because a great trembling and terror had seized them; and they said nothing to anyone because they were afraid.
And after being resurrected, very early on the first day of the week, Jesus first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
And she went and communicated it to those who had been with Him, who were lamenting and crying.
When they heard that He was alive and that she had seen Him, they refused to believe it.
After this, two of them appeared differently when they were on their way to the field.
And these went and communicated it to the others, but they did not believe them either.
Then he appeared to the eleven themselves when they were sitting at the table, and rebuked them for their disbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who had seen him resurrected.
And he said to them: Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.
And these signs will accompany those who have believed: in my name they will cast out demons, they will speak in new languages;
they will take snakes in their hands, and even if they drink something deadly, it will not harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
Then the Lord Jesus, after speaking with them, was received into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by means of the signs that followed it. They immediately communicated to Pedro and his companions all these instructions. And after this, Jesus himself sent through them, from east to west, the sacrosanct and incorruptible message of eternal salvation.