He also said to them, "Truly I tell you, there are some of those here who will not taste death until they have seen that the kingdom of God has come in power."
Six days later, Jesus took Peter, James, and John with him, and led them up, alone, to a high mountain, and was transfigured before them.
Their garments became resplendent, very white, so much so that no laundress on earth can leave them so white.
And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.
Then Peter intervened and said to Jesus: "Rabbi, it is good that we are here." So let's raise three branches: one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
Well, he didn't know what to say, because they were afraid.
A cloud came casting shade for them, and from the cloud a voice said: "This is my beloved Son; hear him."
And immediately, looking around, they no longer saw anyone else with them but only Jesus.
As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them not to tell anyone what they had seen except when the Son of Man rose from the dead.
And they kept the word to each other, discussing what it would mean to rise from the dead.
They asked him, "Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"
He said to them: —In truth, Elijah comes first and restores all things. And how is it written about the Son of Man, that he suffers much and is despised?
However, I tell you that Elijah has already come; and they did with him whatever they wanted just as it is written of him.
When they reached the disciples, they saw a large crowd around them, and some scribes who were quarreling with them.
Immediately, when all the people saw Jesus they were surprised, and running towards him they greeted him.
And he asked them: "What are you arguing with them about?"
One of the crowd answered him: "Master, I brought my son to you because he has a dumb spirit,
and wherever he takes it, he knocks it down. It froths and gnats its teeth, and it wears away. I told your disciples to cast him out but they couldn't.
And answering he said to them: —Oh incredulous generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear them? Bring it to me!
They brought it to him; and when the spirit saw it, it immediately shook the boy, who fell to the ground and rolled over with foam.
Jesus asked his father, "How long has this been happening to you?" He said, "Since childhood."
Many times it is thrown into the fire or into the water to kill it; but if you can do something, have mercy on us and help us!
Jesus said to him: - "If you can ...?". Who believes everything is possible!
Immediately the boy's father cried out saying, "I think!" Help my disbelief!
But when Jesus saw the crowd crowding, he rebuked the unclean spirit saying: —Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you, get out of it and never enter it again!
Then, crying out and tearing him apart with violence, the spirit came out and the boy was left as dead, so many said: —He is dead!
But Jesus took him by the hand and straightened him, and he got up.
When he entered the house, his disciples asked him privately: "Why couldn't we throw him out?"
He said to them: —This genre can come out with nothing but prayer. Jesus announces his death again
Having left there, they walked through Galilee. He didn't want anyone to know it,
because he was teaching his disciples, and he was saying to them: "The Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And once he is dead, he will rise after three days."
But they did not understand this word and were afraid to ask him.
Capernaum arrived. And when he was home, Jesus asked them: "What were you arguing about on the way?"
But they were silent, because what they had disputed with each other along the way was who was the most important.
Then he sat down, called the twelve, and said, "If anyone wants to be the first, he must be the last of all and the servant of all."
And he took a child and put him in their midst; and taking him in his arms, he said to them:
—Whoever receives someone like this child in my name, receives me; and the one who receives me does not receive me but the one who sent me.
Juan said to him, "Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him because he was not following us."
But Jesus said, "Do not forbid it, for no one who works miracles in my name can afterward speak ill of me.
Because he who is not against us is for us.
Anyone who gives them a glass of water in my name, because they are Christ's, I tell you the truth, they will never lose their reward.
"And to anyone who causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better if a large millstone were tied around his neck and he was thrown into the sea.
"If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life with one hand than to go to hell, to the inexhaustible fire.
,
If your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than, having two feet, to be cast into hell.
,
And if your eye stumbles, take it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than, having two eyes, to be cast into hell,
where your worm does not die, and the fire never goes out.
"Because everything will be salted with fire.
Good is the salt; but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what will it be salty? Have salt in you and live in peace with one another.