The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
As it is written in the prophet Isaiah: Behold, I am sending my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way.
Voice of the one who proclaims in the desert: "Prepare the way of the Lord; straighten your paths".
Thus John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.
And all the province of Judea and all those of Jerusalem went out to him; and they were baptized by him in the Jordan river, confessing their sins.
Juan was dressed in camel hair and with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey.
And he preached saying: "The one who is more powerful than I is coming after me, whom I am not worthy to untie, crouching, the strap of his shoes.
I have baptized them in water but he will baptize them in the Holy Spirit. "
It happened in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John at the Jordan.
And immediately, as he came up out of the water, he saw the heavens open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.
And a voice came from heaven: "You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased".
Immediately the Spirit drove him into the desert,
and he was in the desert forty days, being tempted by Satan. He was with the wild beasts and the angels served him.
After John was imprisoned, Jesus went to Galilee preaching the gospel of God,
and saying: "The time has come and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel!"
And passing by the Sea of ​​Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, brother of Simon, casting the net into the sea because they were fishermen.
Jesus said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men."
And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Going a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee and his brother John. They were in their boat fixing the nets.
He immediately called them; and they, leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the day laborers, went after him.
They entered Capernaum. And immediately, when he entered the synagogue on Saturdays, he taught.
And they were amazed at his teaching because he taught them as someone with authority and not as scribes.
And at that moment a man with an unclean spirit was in their synagogue, and he exclaimed
saying: "What have you got with us, Jesus of Nazareth?" Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God!
Jesus rebuked him saying: —Shut up and get out of him!
And the unclean spirit shook him violently, cried out with a loud voice, and came out of him.
Everyone marveled, so they argued with each other saying, "What is this?" A new doctrine with authority! Even the unclean spirits he commands, and they obey him.
And soon his fame spread everywhere, throughout the region around Galilee.
Immediately, when they left the synagogue, they went with James and John to the house of Simon and Andrew.
Simon's mother-in-law was in bed with a fever; and they immediately told him about her.
He approached her, took her hand, and lifted her up. And the fever left her, and she began to serve them.
At sunset, when the sun went down, they brought him all the sick and the possessed.
The entire city was gathered at the door.
And he healed many who suffered from various diseases and cast out many demons. And he didn't allow demons to speak, because they knew him.
Having risen very early in the morning, still at night, Jesus went out and went to a deserted place and there he prayed.
Simon and his companions went in search of him.
They found him and said, "They're all looking for you."
He answered them: "Let's go somewhere else, to the neighboring towns, so that I can also preach there because I have come for this."
And he went on preaching in their synagogues throughout Galilee, and casting out demons.
And a leper came to him imploring him, and on his knees he said: "If you want, you can clean me."
Jesus, moved with compassion, reached out, touched him and said: —I want to; Be clean.
And immediately his leprosy disappeared, and he was clean.
He immediately dismissed him, after admonishing him,
And he said to him, "Look, don't say anything to anyone." Rather go, show yourself to the priest, and offer what Moses commanded regarding your purification, as a testimony to them.
But when he came out, he began to proclaim and spread the fact widely, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter any city but remained outside in unpopulated places. And they came to him from everywhere.