And when they were near Jerusalem, Bethphage, and Bethany, by the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
And he said to them, "Go into the village before you, and when you enter it, you will find a colt tied up, on which no man has ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone says to you: Why are you doing that? Say that the Lord needs it; and he will send it here right away.
And they went and found the colt tied outside, at the door, in the corner of the road, and they untied it.
And some of those who were there said to them: What are you doing untying the colt?
They then told them how Jesus had commanded, and they let them go.
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their robes on it, and sat on it.
Many also spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut tree branches and spread them on the road.
And those who went ahead and those who came behind cried out, saying: Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
Blessed the kingdom of our coming father David! Hosanna in the high!
And Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple; and having looked around all things, and being late, he left for Bethany with the twelve.
And the next day, when they left Bethany, he was hungry.
And seeing in the distance a fig tree that had leaves, he approached to see if he found something in it; and when he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the time for figs.
Then Jesus spoke and said to the fig tree: Never again should anyone eat fruit of you! And his disciples heard it.
So they came to Jerusalem; And when Jesus entered the temple, he began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple; and overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those who sold pigeons;
and he did not consent to anyone crossing the temple carrying any utensil.
And he taught them, saying: Is it not written: My house will be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves.
And the scribes and the chief priests heard it, and sought to take his life; because they were afraid of him, because all the people were amazed at his doctrine.
But when night came, Jesus left the city.
And in the morning, as they passed, they saw that the fig tree had dried from the roots.
Then Peter remembered him, saying, Master, behold, the fig tree that you cursed has dried up.
And Jesus answering said to them: Have faith in God.
For truly I say to you that anyone who says to this mountain: Take off and throw yourself into the sea, and do not hesitate in your heart, but believe that what you say will be done, what you say will be done to you.
Therefore, I tell you that whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you will receive it, and it will come to you.
And when you are praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your offenses.
For if you do not forgive, your Father who is in heaven will not forgive your offenses either.
And they returned to Jerusalem; And as he walked through the temple, the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders came to him;
And they said to him, By what authority do you do these things? And who has given you authority to do these things?
And Jesus answering said to them, I will also ask you a question; and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me
Then they argued among themselves, saying: If we say from heaven, he will say: Why then did you not believe him?
And what about men? They feared the people, because everyone considered that John was truly a prophet.
And answering, they said to Jesus: We do not know. And Jesus answering said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.