Very early in the morning, the chief priests immediately arranged a meeting with the elders, the scribes, and the entire council; And binding Jesus, they brought him and delivered him to Pilate.
Pilate asked him: Are you the King of the Jews? He answered and said to him *: You say so.
And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Again Pilate asked him, saying: Do you not answer anything? Look how many things they accuse you of.
But Jesus did not answer anything else; so Pilate was amazed.
Now, at each party he used to release a prisoner, the one they asked for.
And one named Barabbas had been imprisoned with the seditious who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the crowd came up, began to ask him to do as he had always done.
Then Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Because he knew that the chief priests had delivered him out of envy.
But the chief priests incited the crowd to ask him to release Barabbas instead of Jesus.
And Pilate, taking the word again, said to them: What then shall I do with the one you call the King of the Jews?
They cried out to him: Crucify him!
And Pilate said to them: Why? What wrong has he done? And they shouted even more: Crucify him!
Pilate, wanting to please the crowd, released Barabbas to them; and after whipping Jesus, he handed him over to be crucified.
Then the soldiers took him inside the palace, that is, to the Praetorium, and summoned * the entire Roman cohort.
They dressed him * in purple, and after weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on;
and they began to cheer for him: Hail, King of the Jews!
They beat him on the head with a reed and spat on him, and kneeling down they bowed to him.
And after mocking Him, they took off the purple, put His clothes on Him and took Him out * to crucify Him.
And they forced * one who was passing by and coming from the field, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear the cross of Jesus.
They took him * to the place called Golgotha, which translated means: Place of the Skull.
And they tried to give him wine mixed with myrrh, but He did not drink it.
When they crucified him *, they divided * their clothes, casting lots for them to decide what each one would take.
It was the third hour when they crucified him.
And the inscription of the accusation against Him read: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
* They crucified * with him two thieves; one on his right and one on his left.
And the Scripture was fulfilled that says: And with the transgressors it was numbered.
And those who passed by insulted him, shaking their heads and saying: Bah! You who destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
Save yourself by descending from the cross!
In the same way, also the main priests along with the scribes, mocking Him among them, said: He saved others, he cannot save himself.
May this Christ, the King of Israel, now descend from the cross, so that we may see and believe. And those who were crucified with Him also insulted Him.
When the sixth hour came, there was darkness over the whole earth until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus exclaimed in a loud voice: ELOI, ELOI, ¿LEMA SABACTANI ?, which translated means, MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU GIVEN ME?
Some of those who were there, when they heard it, said: Look, he calls Elijah.
Then one ran and soaked a sponge in vinegar, and putting it on a reed, he gave him a drink, saying: Leave, let's see if Elijah comes to take him down.
And Jesus, giving a loud cry, expired.
And the veil of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
Seeing the centurion who was in front of him, the way he expired, he said: Truly this man was the Son of God.
There were also some women watching from afar, among whom were María Magdalena, María, the mother of Jacobo the lesser and José, and Salomé,
which when Jesus was in Galilee, followed him and served him; and there were many others who had gone up with Him to Jerusalem.
Already at dusk, as it was the day of preparation, that is, the eve of the Sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea came, a prominent member of the council, who also awaited the kingdom of God; and filling himself with courage, he went to where Pilate was and asked for the body of Jesus.
Pilate was surprised that he had already died, and calling the centurion, asked him if he was already dead.
And verifying this through the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph,
who bought a linen cloth, and taking him down from the cross, wrapped him in the linen cloth and put him in a grave that had been excavated in the rock; and he rolled a stone at the entrance to the tomb.
And María Magdalena and María, José's mother, looked to know where they put him.
