Having entered Capernaum again several days later, it was heard that he was at home.
And many gathered, so much so that there was no longer even a door; and He spoke the word to them.
Then they * came * to bring him a paralyzed man carried between four.
And because they couldn't get close to Him because of the crowd, they raised the roof above where He was; and when they had made an opening, they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic lay.
Jesus, seeing their faith, said * to the paralytic: Son, your sins are forgiven.
But some of the scribes were sitting there, who thought in their hearts:
Why does he speak like this? He is blaspheming; Who can forgive sins, but only God?
And instantly Jesus, knowing in his spirit that they thought that way within themselves, said to them *: Why do you think these things in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up, take your mat and walk"?
So that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he * said to the paralytic):
To you I say: Get up, take your mat and go home.
And he got up, and instantly taking the stretcher, came out in full view of everyone, so that everyone was amazed and glorified God, saying: We have never seen anything like this.
And He went out again to the seashore, and all the crowd came to Him, and taught them.
And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting in the tribute office, and said to him, * Follow me. And getting up, he followed him.
And it came to pass that while Jesus was sitting at the table in Levi's house, many tax collectors and sinners were eating with Jesus and his disciples; because there were many of them following him.
When the scribes of the Pharisees saw that He ate with sinners and tax collectors, they said to his disciples: Why does He eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
Hearing this, Jesus said to them *: Those who are healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick; I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; And they * came and said to him, "Why do John's disciples and Pharisees' disciples fast, but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can the bridegroom's companions fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the groom with them, they cannot fast.
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast on that day.
No one puts a patch of new fabric on an old dress, because then the shrinking patch pulls it, the new from the old, and a worse break occurs.
And no one puts new wine in old wineskins, because then the wine will break the wineskin, and the wine and the wineskins are also lost; but new wine is poured into new wineskins.
And it came to pass that one Sabbath day Jesus was passing through the fields, and his disciples began to pluck ears as they made their way.
Then the Pharisees said to him: Look, why do you do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?
And He said to them *: Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and his companions,
How did he enter the house of God in the time of Abiathar, the high priest, and ate the consecrated loaves, which is not lawful for anyone to eat, but for the priests, and gave also to those who were with him?
And He said to them: The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath.