And leaving from there, he went to the region of Judea and across the Jordan; And the people returned to meet him, and again he taught them how he used to.
And the Pharisees approached, they asked him, to tempt him, if it was lawful for the husband to repudiate his wife.
But he answering said to them: What did Moses command you?
And they said: Moses allowed to write a divorce letter and reject it.
And Jesus answering said to them: Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this commandment;
but at the beginning of creation God made them male and female.
For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife.
And the two will be one flesh; so they are no longer two, but one meat.
Therefore, what God has united, man does not separate.
And at home the disciples returned to ask him about the same thing.
And he said to them: Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her;
and if the wife divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they presented him with children to touch, but the disciples rebuked those who introduced them.
And when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them: Let the children come to me and do not stop them, because such is the kingdom of God.
Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And taking them in his arms, laying his hands on them, he blessed them.
And when he was going out to follow his path, one came running, and kneeling before him, asked him: Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? There is none good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery. Do not kill. Don't steal. Don't give false testimony. Do not disappoint. Honor your father and mother.
He then, answering, said to him: Master, I have kept all this from my youth.
Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said: One thing you lack: go, sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, taking up your cross.
But he, saddened by this word, left sad, because he had many possessions.
Then Jesus, looking around, said to his disciples: How hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were amazed at his words; But Jesus answered and said to them again: Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
And they were even more amazed, saying to each other: And who can be saved?
Then Jesus, looking at them, said: It is impossible for men, but not for God, because all things are possible for God.
Then Peter began to say to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
And Jesus answering said: Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left home, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children or lands, because of me and the gospel,
that I do not receive a hundred times more now in this time, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children and inheritances, in the midst of persecutions; and in the world to come, eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
And they were on the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them, and they were amazed and followed him with fear; then, taking the twelve apart again, he began to tell them the things that were to happen to him:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Gentiles.
And they will mock him, and scourge him, and spit on him and kill him; but on the third day he will rise again.
Then James and John, sons of Zebedee, approached him, saying: Master, we want you to grant us what we are going to ask of you.
And he said to them: What do you want me to give you?
And they said to him, Grant that we may sit in your glory, one on your right and the other on your left.
Then Jesus said to them: You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink from the glass that I drink, or be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
And they said to him: We can. And Jesus said to them: Truly, from the cup that I drink, you will drink; and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized.
But that you sit on my right and on my left, it is not mine to give, but to those for whom it is prepared.
And when the ten heard it, they began to get angry with Jacobo and Juan.
But Jesus, calling them, said to them: You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the nations rule over them, and those who are great in them have power over them.
But it will not be so among you, but he who wants to become great among you will be your servant;
and anyone among you who wants to be first will be the servant of all.
Because the Son of Man did not come to be served either, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Then they came to Jericho; And as he was leaving Jericho, and his disciples and a great multitude, Bartimaeus, the blind son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road, begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus, the one from Nazareth, he began to cry out and say: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And many rebuked him to be silent, but he cried out louder: Son of David, have mercy on me!
Then Jesus stopped and sent for him; And they called the blind man, saying: Have confidence; get up, he calls you.
He then, throwing off his cloak, got up and went to Jesus.
And Jesus answering said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him: Master, let me see again.
And Jesus said to him: Go, your faith has healed you. And instantly he regained his sight and followed Jesus on the road.