They went to the other shore of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes.
As soon as he got out of the boat, a man with an unclean spirit suddenly met him from the tombs.
He had his dwelling among the graves. And no one could tie him even with chains,
since many times he had been tied with shackles and chains but he had smashed the chains and crumbled the shackles. And no one could master it.
Continuously, day and night, he walked among the graves and through the mountains screaming and wounding himself with stones.
When she saw Jesus from afar, she ran and worshiped him.
And crying out with a loud voice, he said: "What have you got with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God?" I swear to God, don't torment me.
For Jesus said to him, "Come out of this man, you filthy spirit."
And he asked him: "What's your name?" And he said: —My name is Legion, because we are many.
And I begged him not to send them out of that region.
There near the mountain a large herd of pigs was grazing.
And they begged him saying, "Send us the pigs, that we may enter them."
Jesus gave them permission. And the unclean spirits went out and entered the pigs; and the herd, like two thousand pigs, jumped into the sea from a cliff and drowned in the sea.
Those who fed the pigs fled and gave notice in the city and through the fields. And they went to see what had happened.
They came to Jesus and saw the demoniac who had had the legion, sitting, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
Those who had seen him told them what had happened to the demoniac and the pigs,
and they began to implore Jesus to leave their territories.
And as he entered the boat, the one who had been possessed by the demon begged him to let him be with him.
But Jesus did not allow it, but said to him, "Go home, to yours, and tell them how great things the Lord has done for you, and how he had mercy on you."
He left and began to proclaim in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled.
When Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other shore, a large crowd gathered around him. And he was by the sea.
And one of the main synagogues, named Jairus, came. When he saw him, he fell at his feet
and she implored him a lot saying: —My little daughter is dying. Come! Put your hands on her so that she is saved and alive.
Jesus went with him. And a large crowd followed him, and they crowded him.
There was a woman who had been bleeding for twelve years.
He had suffered a lot from many doctors and had spent everything he had, and he had availed himself of nothing; rather, it went from bad to worse.
When he heard about Jesus, he came behind him from the crowd and touched his cloak
because she thought: "If I only touch her cloak, I will be healed."
Instantly the source of her blood dried up and she felt in her body that she was already healed of that scourge.
Suddenly, Jesus, recognizing within himself that power had come from him, turning to the crowd, said: "Who touched my cloak?"
His disciples said to him, "You see the crowd pressing in on you, and you ask, 'Who touched me?'
He looked around to see who had done this.
Then the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done in her, went and fell down before him and told him the whole truth.
He said to her, "Child, your faith has saved you." Go in peace and be healed of your scourge.
While he was still talking, they came from the synagogue principal's house saying, "Your daughter is dead." Why bother the Master more?
But Jesus, ignoring this word that was said, said to the head of the synagogue: “Do not be afraid; just believe.
And he did not allow anyone to accompany him, except Peter, James and John, the brother of James.
They arrived at the house of the synagogue principal, and he saw the commotion and those who were crying and mourning a lot.
And when he entered he said to them: "Why are you making a fuss and crying?" The girl is not dead but sleeps.
They made fun of him. But he took them all out, and took the girl's father and mother and those who were with him, and entered where the girl was.
He took the girl's hand and said: —Talita, cumi (which translated is: Girl, I tell you, get up).
And immediately the girl got up and walked, because she was twelve years old. And they were stunned.
He strictly commanded that no one should know and ordered that they feed her.