He also said to them: Truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they have seen the kingdom of God that comes with power.
And six days later, Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, and led them away, alone, to a high mountain; and was transfigured before them.
And her dresses became glowing, very white, like snow, so much so that no launderer on earth can leave them so white.
And Elijah appeared to them, along with Moses, and they spoke with Jesus.
Then Peter answered and said to Jesus: Master, it is good that we are here; Let's make three branches: one for you, and one for Moses and one for Elijah;
because I didn't know what he was talking about, because they were terrified.
Then a cloud came that overshadowed them, and from the cloud a voice saying: This is my Beloved Son; hear him.
And suddenly, when they looked, they saw no one with them anymore, but Jesus alone.
And when they came down from the mountain, he commanded them not to tell anyone what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
And they kept the word to themselves, discussing what it would be like to rise from the dead.
And they asked him, saying: Why do the scribes say that it is necessary for Elijah to come first?
And he answered and said to them: Elijah to the truth comes first and will restore all things. And is it not written that the Son of Man suffers much and is had nothing?
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did everything they wanted to him, as it is written about him.
And when he came to the disciples, he saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them.
And immediately all the people, seeing him, were amazed, and running to him, they greeted him.
And he asked them: What do you discuss with them?
Then, one of the crowd answered and said: Master, I brought you my son, who has a dumb spirit,
which, wherever it takes him, knocks him down; and he froths, and he gnashes his teeth and dries up; and I told your disciples to cast him out, but they couldn't.
And he answered and said to them: O unbelieving generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear you? Bring it to me
And they brought it to him. And when the spirit saw Jesus, it immediately shook the boy who, falling to the ground, was rolling around, foaming.
And Jesus asked the father: How long has this been happening to him? And he said: Since childhood.
And many times he throws it into the fire and into the water to kill him; but if you can do something, have mercy on us and help us!
And Jesus said to him: If you can believe, to him who believes everything is possible.
And immediately the boy's father cried out, saying: I believe; help my disbelief.
And when Jesus saw the crowd crowding, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him: Mute and deaf spirit, I command you, get out of him and don't enter him anymore!
Then the spirit, crying out and shaking him a lot, went out; and the boy was left as dead, so many said: He is dead.
But Jesus, taking him by the hand, straightened him; and got up.
And when he entered the house, his disciples asked him separately: Why we couldn't throw him out?
And he said to them: This genre can come out with nothing, but with prayer and fasting.
And having left there, they walked through Galilee; and I didn't want anyone to know,
for he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him; and after he is dead, he will rise again on the third day.
But they did not understand this word and were afraid to ask him.
And he came to Capernaum; And being at home, he asked them: What did you discuss among yourselves on the way?
But they were silent, because with each other they had discussed along the way who was to be the eldest.
Then sitting down, he called the twelve and said to them: If anyone wants to be first, he will be the last of all and the servant of all.
And he took a child and put him in their midst; and taking him in his arms, he said to them:
Whoever receives one of these children in my name receives me; and he who receives me does not receive me, but he who sent me.
And John answered him, saying: Master, we have seen one who cast out demons in your name, but he does not follow us, and we forbid him, because he does not follow us.
But Jesus said: Do not forbid it to him, because there is no one to perform a miracle in my name that can later say bad things about me.
For he who is not against us is for us.
And anyone who gives you a glass of water in my name, because you belong to Christ, I tell you the truth, he will not lose his reward.
And to anyone who stumbles one of these little ones who believe in me, it would be better if a millstone were tied around his neck and he was thrown into the sea.
And if your hand makes you stumble, cut it off; It is better for you to enter life with one hand than to have two hands, go to hell, to the fire that cannot be extinguished,
where their worm does not die, and the fire never goes out.
And if your foot were an occasion to fall, cut it off; It is better for you to enter life lame, than having two feet, being cast into hell, into the fire that cannot be quenched,
where their worm does not die, and the fire never goes out.
And if your eye were a chance to fall, take it out; it is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes, to be cast into hell,
where their worm does not die, and the fire never goes out.
For everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be salted with salt.
Good is the salt; but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace with one another.