In those days, when there was again a large crowd that had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples and said to them *:
I have compassion for the crowd because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat;
and if I fire them without eating at their homes, they will faint along the way, because some of them have come from far away.
His disciples answered him: Where can anyone find enough to satisfy these here in the desert with bread?
And He asked them: How many loaves do you have? And they answered: Seven.
Then he * commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground; and taking the seven loaves, after giving thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to put before the people; and they served them to the crowd.
They also had a few minnows; and after blessing them, he commanded that they also serve them.
They all ate and were satisfied; and they collected of what was left of the pieces, seven baskets.
Those who ate were about four thousand; and fired them.
And immediately getting into the boat with his disciples, he went to the Dalmanuta region.
Then the Pharisees came out and began to argue with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven to test Him.
Sighing deeply in his spirit, he said *: Why is this generation asking for a signal? Truly I tell you, no sign will be given to this generation.
And leaving them, he embarked again and went to the other side.
And they had forgotten to take breads; and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
And He charged them saying: Be careful! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
And they argued among themselves that they had no loaves.
Noticing Jesus, he said to them *: Why do you argue that you have no bread? Do you still not understand or understand? Do you have a hardened heart?
HAVING EYES, DON'T SEE? AND HAVING EARS, DON'T HEAR? Don't you remember
when I broke the five loaves among the five thousand? How many baskets full of pieces did you collect? And they said to him *: Twelve.
And when I broke the seven loaves among the four thousand, how many baskets full of the pieces did you collect? And they said to him *: Seven.
And he said to them: Do you still not understand?
They * came to Bethsaida, and brought him * a blind man and begged him * to touch him.
Taking the blind man by the hand, he led him out of the village; and after spitting in his eyes and putting his hands on him, he asked him: Do you see anything?
And looking up, he said: I see men, but I see them as walking trees.
Then Jesus put his hands over his eyes again, and he stared and was restored; and he saw everything clearly.
And he sent him home saying: Not even in the village do you enter.
Jesus and his disciples went out to the villages of Caesarea Philippi; and on the way he asked his disciples, saying to them: Who do men say that I am?
And they answered him, saying: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; but others, one of the prophets.
He asked them again: But you, who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said *: You are the Christ.
And He severely warned them not to speak of Him to anyone.
And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
And he said these words clearly to them. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
But turning and looking at his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said to him: "Get behind me, Satan! Because you do not have in mind the things of God, but the things of men.
And calling the crowd and his disciples, he said to them: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Well, what use is it to a man to win the whole world and lose his soul?
For what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.