As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples * said to him: Master, look at what stones and what buildings!
And Jesus said to him: Do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, which shall not be overthrown.
And when He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, in front of the temple, Peter, James, John and Andrew asked him in private:
Tell us, when will this happen, and what sign will there be when all these things are to be accomplished?
And Jesus began to say to them: See that no one deceives you.
Many will come in my name saying, "I am the Christ," and they will deceive many.
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; All this needs to happen, but it is not the end yet.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be earthquakes in various places; and there will be famines. This is just the beginning of the pain.
But be alert; for they will deliver you up to the courts and you will be scourged in the synagogues, and you will appear before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them.
But first the gospel must be preached to all nations.
And when they take you and deliver you, do not worry in advance about what you are going to say, but what is given to you at that hour, speak that way; for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents, and will kill them.
And you will be hated by all because of my name, but whoever endures to the end will be saved.
But when you see the ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION placed where it should not be (whoever reads, who understands), then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
and whoever is on the roof, do not go down or enter to get anything out of your house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
But, woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days!
Pray that this does not happen in the winter.
For those days will be one of tribulation, just as it has not happened since the beginning of God's creation until now, nor will it ever happen.
And if the Lord had not shortened those days, no one would be saved; but because of the elect that He chose, He shortened the days.
So if someone says to you: "Look, here is the Christ", or: "Look, there he is", do not believe him.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show signs and wonders in order to mislead, if possible, the elect.
But you, be alert; See that I have told you everything beforehand.
But in those days, after that tribulation, THE SUN WILL DARK AND THE MOON WILL NOT GIVE ITS LIGHT,
THE STARS WILL FALL FROM HEAVEN and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
Then they will see THE SON OF MAN COMING IN THE CLOUDS with great power and glory.
And then he will send the angels, and will gather his elect from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of the sky.
From the fig tree learn the parable: when its branch is already tender and leaves its leaves, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that He is near, at the doors.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
Be alert, watch; because you don't know when the appointed time is.
He is like a man who went on a trip, and when he left his house he left his servants in charge, assigning each one his task, and ordered the doorman to be alert.
Therefore, keep watch, because you do not know when the lord of the house comes, whether at dusk, or at midnight, or at the crowing of the rooster, or at dawn;
lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch!