He left there and * came to his town; and his disciples followed him *.
When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue; and many who listened to him were astonished, saying: Where did he obtain such things, and what is this wisdom that has been given him, and these miracles that he performs with his hands?
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? Are not your sisters here with us? And they were scandalized because of Him.
And Jesus said to them, There is no prophet without honor except in his own land, and among his relatives, and in his house.
And he couldn't do a miracle there; he only healed a few sick people on whom he laid his hands.
And he was marvelled with their incredullity. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
Then he called * the twelve and began to send them two by two, giving them authority over the unclean spirits;
and ordered them not to carry anything for the road, but only a staff; no bread, no saddlebag, no money in the belt;
but wearing sandals. Don't wear two robes
He said to them, "and wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave the town."
And wherever they do not receive or listen to you, as you leave, shake the dust off the soles of your feet as a testimony against them.
And going out, they preached that everyone would repent.
And they cast out many demons, and anointed many sick with oil and healed them.
King Herod found out about this, because the name of Jesus had become famous, and people said: John the Baptist has risen from the dead, that is why these miraculous powers work in him.
But others said: It is Elijah. And others said: He is a prophet, like one of the ancient prophets.
And when Herod heard this, he said: John, whom I beheaded, has risen.
Because Herod himself had sent John to be arrested and chained in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because Herod had married her.
Because John said to Herod: It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.
And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to kill him, but he couldn't,
because Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just and holy man, and kept him protected. And when he heard him he was very puzzled, but he liked to listen to him.
But an opportune day came, when Herod, being his birthday, offered a feast to his nobles and commanders and to the chiefs of Galilee;
and when Herodias's own daughter entered and danced, she pleased Herod and those who sat at the table with him; And the king said to the girl: Ask me what you want and I will give it to you.
And he swore to her: I will give you what you ask of me, up to half of my kingdom.
She came out and said to her mother: What shall I ask for? And she replied: The head of John the Baptist.
Immediately she hurriedly presented herself to the king with her request, saying: I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptist on a tray.
And although the king was very sad, nevertheless because of his oaths and those who sat with him at the table, he did not want to snub her.
And instantly the king sent an executioner and ordered him to bring John's head. And he went and beheaded him in prison,
and he brought his head on a tray, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
When his disciples heard this, they went and took the body and buried him.
The apostles * met with Jesus, and informed him of all that they had done and taught.
And He said to them *: Come, separate yourselves from the others to a solitary place and rest a little. (Because there were many who came and went, and they did not even have time to eat.)
And they went by boat to a secluded, lonely place.
But the people saw them leave, and many recognized them and together they ran there on foot from all the cities, and arrived before them.
Upon landing, He saw a great crowd, and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd; and began to teach them many things.
And when it was very late, his disciples approached him, saying: The place is deserted and it is already very late;
fire them to go to the surrounding fields and villages and buy themselves something to eat.
But He answered and said to them, Give them something to eat. And they said to him *: Do you want us to go and buy two hundred denarii of bread and feed them?
And He said to them *: How many loaves do you have? Go and see And when they were sure they said to him *: Five, and two fish.
And he ordered them all to lie down in groups on the green grass.
And they lay down in groups of one hundred and fifty.
Then He took the five loaves and the two fishes, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he blessed them, and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to serve them; He also divided the two fish among all.
They all ate and were satisfied.
And they collected twelve baskets full of the pieces, and also of the fish.
Those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
He immediately made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd.
And after saying goodbye to them, he went to the mountains to pray.
At dusk, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and He was alone on land.
And when he saw them row tiredly, because the wind was against them, like on the fourth watch of the night, he went towards them walking on the sea, and he wanted to pass them by.
But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought he was a ghost and they began to scream;
because they all saw him and were troubled. But immediately He spoke to them and said *: Be of good cheer; it's me, don't fear!
And he got into the boat with them, and the wind died down; and they were greatly amazed,
because they had not understood about the loaves, but their mind was dull.
After the crossing, they reached land at Genesaret, and docked.
When they got out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Jesus,
and they hurried through all that region, and began to bring the sick in their stretchers where they heard that He was.
And wherever He entered villages, cities, or fields, they put the sick in the squares, and begged Him to allow them to touch even the hem of their cloak; and all who touched it were healed.