And he left there and went to his land, and his disciples followed him.
And when the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue; and many, hearing him, were astonished and said: Where does this man get these things from? And what wisdom is this that is given to him, and such wonders that by his hands are done?
Is not this the carpenter, son of Mary, brother of James, and of Joseph, and of Judas and of Simon? Are not his sisters here with us too? And they were offended by him.
But Jesus said to them: There is no prophet without honor except in his own land, and among his relatives and in his house.
And he couldn't do a miracle there; He only healed a few sick people by laying his hands on them.
And he was amazed at their disbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
And he called the twelve and began to send them two by two; and gave them authority over unclean spirits.
And he ordered them not to carry anything for the journey: no saddlebag, no bread, no money in the bag, but only a cane,
and that they should wear sandals and not wear two robes.
And he said to them: Wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that place.
And for all those who do not receive you or listen to you, go out from there, shake off the dust that is under your feet, as a testimony against them. Truly, I say to you, on the day of judgment, punishment will be more tolerable for those of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that city.
And going out, they preached that the men would repent.
And they cast out many demons, and anointed many sick with oil and healed them.
And King Herod heard the fame of Jesus, because his name had become known, and he said: John the Baptist has risen from the dead, and therefore, miraculous powers work in him.
Others said: It is Elijah. And others said: He is a prophet, or one of the prophets.
And when Herod heard this, he said, This is John, the one I beheaded; he has risen from the dead.
Because Herod himself had sent John to be arrested and chained to prison because of Herodias, wife of Philip, his brother; for he had taken her as his wife.
Because John said to Herod: It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.
But Herodias was stalking him and wanted to kill him. But I cant,
because Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just and holy man, and had respect for him; and hearing him, he did many things; and I heard him willingly.
And an opportune day came when Herod, at his birthday feast, gave a supper to his princes and tribunes, and to the chiefs of Galilee;
And the daughter of Herodias came in and danced, and it pleased Herod and those who were with him at the table, and the king said to the girl: Ask me what you want, I will give it to you.
And he swore to her: Whatever you ask of me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.
And she went out and said to her mother: What shall I ask for? And she said to him: The head of John the Baptist.
Then she quickly entered the king, and asked saying: I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist right now.
And the king was very sad, but because of the oath and those who were with him at the table, he did not want to snub her.
And immediately the king, sending one of the guard, ordered that the head of John be brought;
the guard went and beheaded him in prison, and brought his head on a plate and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
And when his disciples heard it, they came and took his body, and put him in a grave.
And the apostles met with Jesus and told him everything they had done and what they had taught.
And he said to them: Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a little. Because there were many who came and went, so they didn't even have a chance to eat.
And they went alone in a boat to a desert place.
But many saw them go and recognized him; and many went there on foot from the cities, and came before them and met with him.
And when Jesus came out, he saw a great crowd and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd; and began to teach them many things.
And when the hour was already very late, his disciples approached him, saying: The place is desert and the hour is already very late.
Dismiss them to go to the surrounding fields and villages and buy bread for themselves, because they have nothing to eat.
And he answered and said to them, Give them something to eat. And they said to him: Do you want us to go and buy bread for two hundred denarii and feed them?
And he said to them: How many loaves do you have? Go and see it. And when they found out, they said: Five, and two fish.
And he commanded them to recline everyone in groups on the green grass.
And they lay down in groups, one hundred and one hundred, and fifty to fifty.
And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and distributed among all the two fish.
And they all ate and were satisfied.
And they collected twelve baskets full of the pieces and the leftover fish.
And those who ate were five thousand men.
And immediately he hastened his disciples to get into the boat and go before him to Bethsaida, on the other side, while he dismissed the crowd.
And after he had dismissed them, he went to the mountains to pray.
And when it was late, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone on land.
And he saw them weary, rowing, because the wind was against them; and about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them walking on the sea, and he wanted to get ahead of them.
And when they saw him walk on the sea, they thought he was a ghost and they cried out;
because they all saw him and were troubled. But immediately he spoke to them and said: Be of good cheer; I am, fear not!
And he got into them in the boat, and the wind died down; and they were greatly astonished and amazed;
because they had not yet understood about the loaves, because their hearts were hardened.
And when they passed the other side, they reached the land of Genesaret and arrived at the shore.
And when they got out of the boat, they immediately recognized him.
And touring all the surrounding land, they began to bring sick people in beds from everywhere to where they heard that he was.
And wherever he went, in villages, or in cities, or in fields, they put those who were sick in the streets and begged him to allow them to touch even the edge of his cloak; and all who touched him were healed.