When he entered Capernaum again after a few days, he was heard to be home.
Many came to him, so that they no longer fit even at the door; and he spoke the word to them.
So they came to him bringing a paralytic loaded by four.
And since they could not bring him closer to him due to the crowd, they uncovered the ceiling where Jesus was and, after making an opening, they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic was lying.
And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic: —Hey, your sins are forgiven.
Some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts:
"Why is he talking like this?" Blasphemous! Who can forgive sins but one, God?
Immediately Jesus, realizing in his spirit that they reasoned like this within themselves, said to them: —Why do you reason like this in your hearts?
What is easier, to say to the paralytic: "Your sins are forgiven you"; or tell him: "Get up, take your mat and walk"?
But, so that they know that the Son of Man has the authority to forgive sins on earth, ”he said to the paralytic:
I tell you, get up, take your mat and go home!
And he got up, and immediately took his stretcher and went out in the presence of all, so that all were amazed and glorified God saying: —We have never seen such a thing!
Jesus went out again by the sea, and all the people came to him and he taught them.
And passing, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting in the place of public tributes, and said to him: "Follow me!" And getting up, she followed him.
It happened that, while Jesus was sitting at the table in Levi's house, many publicans and sinners were also sitting at the table with Jesus and his disciples, because they were many and had followed him.
And when the scribes of the Pharisees saw him eat with sinners and publicans, they said to his disciples, "Why do you eat with publicans and sinners?"
Hearing this, Jesus said to them, "The healthy do not need a doctor, but the sick do. I have not come to call the righteous but sinners.
John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. They went to Jesus and said, "Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast but your disciples do not fast?"
Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding couple fast while the bridegroom is with them?" As long as they have the groom with them, they cannot fast.
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them. Then on that day they will fast.
No one puts a patch of new cloth on an old dress. Otherwise, the new patch pulls on the old one, and the tear becomes worse.
Nor does anyone pour new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wine breaks the wineskins, and the wine and the wineskins are also lost. Rather, the new wine is poured into new wineskins.
It happened that Jesus was passing through the fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples began to walk, plucking ears of corn.
The Pharisees said to him, "Look, why do they do what is not lawful on Saturdays?"
And he said to them, "You have never read what David did when he was in need and he and those who were with him were hungry;
how he entered the house of God, when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the loaves of the Presence, and even gave to those who were with him; something that is not lawful to eat, except the priests?
He also said to them, "Saturday was made for man, and not man for Saturday.
So the Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath.