And the Pharisees and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem met with Jesus;
these, seeing some of his disciples eat bread with impure hands, that is, not washed, condemned them.
(Because the Pharisees and all the Jews, following the tradition of the elders, if they do not wash their hands many times, they do not eat.
And coming back from the plaza, if they don't wash, they don't eat. And there are many other things that they took to observe, such as the washing of drinking glasses, and of jugs, and of metal utensils and beds).
And the Pharisees and scribes asked him: Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with impure hands?
And he answered and said to them: Hypocrites! Well Isaiah prophesied of you, as it is written: This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
For in vain do they honor me, teaching doctrines as commandments of men.
Because leaving the commandment of God, you cling to the tradition of men: the washing of jugs and drinking glasses; and you do many other similar things.
He also said to them: You well invalidate God's command to keep your tradition.
Because Moses said: Honor your father and your mother, and: Whoever curses the father or the mother will surely die.
But you say: It is enough for a man to say to the father or the mother: It is Corban, that is to say, my offering to God, everything with which I could help you;
and you don't let him do more for his father or his mother,
invalidating the word of God with your tradition that you have transmitted; And you do many things like these.
And calling to all the multitude, he said to them: Hear me all and understand:
There is nothing outside man that enters him that can contaminate him; but what comes out of it, that is what contaminates man.
If anyone has ears to hear, listen.
And separated from the crowd, having entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable.
And he said to them: Are you also like this, without understanding? Do you not understand that nothing from outside that enters man can contaminate him,
because it does not enter his heart, but into the womb, and he goes out to the latrine? This he said, declaring all food clean.
But he said that what comes out of man, that contaminates man.
Because from inside, from the heart of men, come evil thoughts, adulteries, fornication, homicides,
theft, greed, evil, deception, lewdness, envy, insult, pride and folly.
All these evils come from within and contaminate man.
And rising from there, he went to the region of Tire and Sidon; and entering a house, he did not want anyone to know, but he could not hide.
Because a woman, whose daughter had an unclean spirit, immediately heard of him, came and fell at his feet.
And the woman was Greek, a Syrophoenician of origin; and begged him to cast the demon out of his daughter.
But Jesus said to him, First let the children be satisfied, because it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
And she answered and said to him: Yes, Lord, but even the little dogs under the table eat of the crumbs of the children.
Then he said to him: Because of this word, go; the demon has left your daughter.
And when he got home, he found that the demon had come out, and the daughter lying on the bed.
And Jesus, going out of the region of Tire again, came through Sidon to the Sea of ​​Galilee, passing through the region of Decapolis.
And they brought him a deaf and stutterer, and begged him to lay his hand on her.
And taking him apart from the people, she put her fingers in his ears, and spitting, touched his tongue;
and looking at the sky, he groaned and said: Efata !, that is: Be open!
And immediately his ears were opened and the ligature of his tongue was untied, and he spoke well.
And he commanded them not to tell anyone; but the more he sent them, the more and more they disclosed it.
And they marveled greatly, saying, "He has well done everything; it makes deaf hear and dumb speak.