In those days, since there was a large crowd and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples and said:
I have compassion for the crowd, because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat;
And if I send them fasting to their homes, they will pass out on the way, because some of them have come from far away.
And his disciples answered him: Where can anyone satisfy these here in the desert with bread?
And he asked them: How many loaves do you have? And they said: Seven.
Then he commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground; And taking the seven loaves, having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and put them before the crowd.
They also had a few minnows; and blessed them and commanded them to be put before them also.
And they ate and were satisfied; and they collected, from the pieces that were left over, seven baskets.
And they were the ones who ate about four thousand; and fired them.
And immediately entering the boat with his disciples, he went to the Dalmanuta region.
And the Pharisees came and began to argue with him, asking him for a sign from heaven, to tempt him.
And groaning in his spirit, he said: Why does this generation ask for a sign? Truly I tell you, no signal will be given to this generation.
And leaving them, he went back into the boat and went to the other side.
And they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one bread with them in the boat.
And he commanded them, saying, Behold, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
And they argued with each other, saying: It is because we have no bread.
And when Jesus understood it, he said to them: Why are you arguing? Why don't you have bread? Do you still not understand or understand? Have you still hardened your heart?
Having eyes you do not see, and having ears you do not hear? And don't you remember?
When I broke the five loaves out of five thousand, how many baskets full of pieces did you collect? And they said: Twelve.
And when I divided the seven loaves among four thousand, how many baskets full of pieces did you collect? And they said: Seven.
And he said to them: How do you still not understand?
And he came to Bethsaida, and they brought him a blind man and begged him to touch him.
Then, taking the blind man's hand, he led him out of the village; and after spitting in his eyes and putting his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything.
And he, looking up, said: I see men, but I see them as walking trees.
Then he put his hands over his eyes again and made him look; and was restored, and saw far and clearly everyone.
And he sent him home, saying: Do not enter the village, nor tell anyone in the village.
And Jesus went out with his disciples through the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, saying: Who do men say that I am?
And they answered: some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; and others, some of the prophets.
Then he said to them, "And who do you say that I am?" And Peter answering said to him, You are the Christ.
But he commanded them not to speak about him to anyone.
And he began to teach them that the Son of Man had to suffer greatly and be cast aside by the elders, and by the chief priests, and by the scribes, and to be killed and raised after three days.
And he clearly said this word. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
And he, turning and looking at his disciples, rebuked Peter, saying: Get away from me, Satan, because you do not know the things that are of God, but those that are of men.
And calling the people and his disciples, he said to them: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Because what will man benefit if the whole world wins and loses his soul?
Or what reward will man give for his soul?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.