And they reached the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes.
And when he got out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit met him from the tombs,
that he dwelt in the graves, and even with chains they could not bind him;
because many times he had been bound with shackles and chains, but the chains had been broken by him, and the shackles crumbled; and no one could dominate him.
And always, day and night, he was crying out in the mountains and in the graves, hurting himself with stones.
And when she saw Jesus from afar, she ran and worshiped him.
And crying out with a loud voice, he said: What have you got with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore you by God that you don't torment me.
Because I said to him: Get out of this man, you filthy spirit.
And he asked him: What is your name? And he answered, saying: My name is Legion, because we are many.
And I begged him not to send them out of that region.
And there was near the mountain a great herd of pigs grazing.
And all the demons begged him, saying: Send us the pigs that we may enter them.
And Jesus allowed it. And when those unclean spirits came out, they entered the pigs, and the herd threw themselves into the sea by a cliff, which were about two thousand; and drowned in the sea.
And those who fed the pigs fled and gave warning in the city and in the fields. And they went out to see what had happened.
And they came to Jesus and saw the one who had been tormented by the devil, and who had had the legion, sitting and clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it told them what had happened to the one who had the demon, and about the pigs.
And they began to plead with Jesus to leave his surroundings.
And as he entered the boat, the one who had been possessed by the demon begged him to let him be with him.
But Jesus did not allow it, but said to him: Go to your house, to yours, and tell them how great the Lord has done with you and how he has had mercy on you.
So he left and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done with him; and everyone was amazed.
And Jesus passing again in a boat on the other side, a great crowd gathered around him; and he was by the sea.
And one of the synagogue leaders, named Jairus, came; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet
and I begged her a lot, saying: My daughter is on the verge of death; come and put your hands on her so that she is saved, and lives.
And he went with him, and a large crowd followed him, and they pressed him.
And a woman who suffered from blood flow for twelve years,
and he had suffered a lot at the hands of many doctors, and he had spent everything he had, and he had not taken advantage of anything, but he was doing worse,
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind the crowd and touched his cloak.
Because he said: If I only touched her cloak, I will be healthy.
And instantly the blood source dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of that condition.
And immediately Jesus, knowing in himself that virtue had come out of him, turning to the crowd, said: Who has touched my clothes?
And his disciples said to him: You see that the crowd is pressing you, and you say: Who touched me?
And he looked around to see who had done this.
Then the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him the whole truth.
And he said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace and be healed of your affliction.
And while he was still speaking, they came from the synagogue principal's house, saying: Your daughter is dead, why are you bothering the Master the most?
But Jesus, hearing what was said, said to the principal of the synagogue: Do not be afraid, only believe.
And he did not allow anyone to go with him except Peter, and James and John, James's brother.
And he came to the house of the head of the synagogue, and saw the commotion and those who were crying and moaning a lot.
And going in, he said to them: Why are you fussing and crying? The girl is not dead, but sleeps.
And they made fun of him; but he, casting out all, took the girl's father and mother, and those who were with him, and entered where the girl was.
And taking the girl's hand, he said: Talita cumi; which interpreted is: Girl, I tell you, get up.
And immediately the girl got up and walked, because she was twelve years old. And they were shocked with great terror.
But he commanded them much that no one should know, and said that they should feed the girl.