And then, very early in the morning, when the chief priests had already consulted with the elders, with the scribes, and with the entire Sanhedrin, after binding Jesus, they took him away and handed him over to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?" And answering he said, "You say so."
The chief priests accused him of many things.
But Pilate asked him again saying: "You don't answer anything?" Look how many things they accuse you of.
But Jesus, even with that, did not answer anything, so Pilate was amazed.
At the party Pilate used to release a prisoner for them, the one they asked for.
And there was one named Barabbas, imprisoned with the rebels who had committed murder in the insurrection.
The crowd got up and began to ask me to do as usual.
Then Pilate answered them saying, "Do you want me to release the king of the Jews?"
Because he knew that out of envy the chief priests had handed him over.
But the chief priests incited the crowd to release Barabbas rather.
Again Pilate intervened and said, "What, then, do you want me to do with the one they call" the King of the Jews "?
Again they cried out, "Crucify him!"
Then Pilate said to them, "Well, what harm has he done?" But they shouted even louder: "Crucify him!"
Then Pilate, wanting to satisfy the people, released Barabbas and delivered Jesus, after scourging him, to be crucified.
Then the soldiers took him into the courtyard, which is the Praetorium, and summoned the entire company.
They dressed him in purple and, having interwoven a crown of thorns, put it on
and they began to acclaim him: "Long live, King of the Jews!
They also beat him on the head with a reed, spat on him, and knelt down to pay homage to him.
When they made fun of him, they took off the purple cloak and put on his own clothes. Then they took him out to crucify him.
They forced one who passed by coming from the field, a certain Simon of Cyrene, father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry the cross of Jesus.
And they took him to the place called Golgotha, which translated is the place of the Skull.
They gave him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not drink it.
And they crucified him, and they divided his clothes casting lots on them to see what each one would take.
It was nine in the morning when they crucified him.
The title of his accusation was written: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with him they crucified two thieves, one on his right and one on his left.
,
And those who passed insulted him, shaking their heads and saying: —Ah! You who demolish the temple and build it in three days,
Save yourself and come down from the cross!
Similarly, mocking him among themselves, the chief priests along with the scribes said: —He saved others; You cannot save yourself.
May the Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross so that we may see and believe! Those who were crucified with him also insulted him.
When noon came, darkness descended on the whole earth until three in the afternoon.
And at three in the afternoon Jesus exclaimed with a loud voice saying: —Eloi, Eloi! Lama sabactani? (which translated is: My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?).
Hearing him, some of those who were there said, "Behold, call Elijah."
One ran and soaked a sponge in vinegar, put it on a reed and gave him a drink, saying: "Let us see if Elias comes to take him down."
But Jesus, giving a loud cry, expired.
And the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom.
The centurion who was standing before him, when he saw that he had died in this way, said: “Truly this man was the Son of God!
There were also some women watching from afar. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the Less and Joseph, and Salome.
When Jesus was in Galilee, they followed him and served him. There were also many others who had gone up with him to Jerusalem.
When it was already evening, being the day of Preparation; that is, the eve of Saturday,
Joseph of Arimathea, an illustrious member of the council, who also expected the kingdom of God, arrived and boldly entered Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Pilate was surprised that he had already died. And calling the centurion, he asked him if he had already died.
Once informed by the centurion, he granted the body to José.
Buying a sheet and taking it down from the cross, Joseph wrapped it in the sheet and placed it in a grave that had been dug in a rock. Then he rolled a stone to the entrance to the tomb.
María Magdalena and María, José's mother, looked where they put it.