When Saturday passed, María Magdalena, María, mother of Jacobo and Salomé bought aromatic spices to anoint him.
Very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they went to the tomb just after sunrise,
and they said to each other: "Who will remove the stone from the entrance to the tomb?"
But when they looked, they saw that the stone had already been removed, even though it was very large.
And when they entered the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, wearing long white clothes, and they were scared.
But he said to them, "Don't be scared. You are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen! Not here. Here is the place where they put it.
But go, tell your disciples, and Peter, that he is going ahead of you to Galilee. There they will see it, as he told them.
They came out and fled from the grave, because they trembled and were terrified. And they said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid.
[Once Jesus was resurrected, very early on the first day of the week, he first appeared to Mary Magdalene from whom he had cast out seven demons.
She went and announced it to those who had been with him, who were sad and crying.
But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe it.
Then he appeared in another way to two of them who were walking towards the field.
They went and announced it to others, but they did not believe them either.
Then he appeared to the eleven when they were sitting at the table, and rebuked them for their disbelief and hardness of heart because they had not believed those who had seen him resurrected.
And he said to them: "Go all over the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.
These signs will follow those who believe: In my name they will cast out demons, they will speak new languages,
They will take snakes in their hands, and if they drink anything poisonous it will not harm them. They will lay their hands on the sick, and they will heal. "
After he spoke to them, the Lord Jesus was received up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word with the signs that followed.