Again he began to teach by the sea, and a very large crowd gathered before him; so he entered a boat out to sea and sat there, and the whole crowd was on the beach, facing the sea.
And he taught them many things in parables. He said to them in his teaching:
"Hey! Behold, a sower went out to sow.
And while sowing, it happened that part of the seed fell along the road; and the birds came and devoured her.
Another part fell on rocky ground, where there was not much soil, and it immediately sprouted because the soil was not deep.
And when the sun came up it burned and, because it had no roots, it dried up.
Another part fell among the thorns. And the thorns grew and drowned it, and it bore no fruit.
And other seeds fell into good soil, and growing and increasing they bore fruit. And they bore fruit thirty, sixty-one hundred. "
And he said: "He who has an ear to hear, let him hear."
When he was alone, those around him along with the twelve asked him about the parables.
And he said to them: "You have been given the mystery of the kingdom of God; but for those who are outside, all things are in parables
so that seeing they see and not perceiving, and hearing they hear and do not understand; so that they will not convert and be forgiven. "
Then he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
The sower sows the word.
First there are these who fall by the wayside where the word is sown. And when they hear it, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word that had been sown in them.
Those who are sown on stony ground are also those who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy;
but they have no root in themselves, but are of short duration. So when tribulation or persecution comes because of the word, they immediately stumble.
And others are those that are sown among thorns. They are the ones who hear the word,
but the worries of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the greed of other things intrude and drown the word, and it remains fruitless.
And those who were sown in good soil are those who hear the word, receive it and produce fruit at thirty, sixty and one hundred times one. "
He also said to them, "Is a lamp brought to be placed under a drawer or under the bed? Is it not to be placed on the candlestick?
Because there is nothing hidden that should not be manifested; nor anything hidden but to make it clear.
If anyone has ears to hear, listen. "
He also said to them: "Consider what you hear: With the measure with which you measure, you will be measured and it will be added to you.
For from the one who has, it will be given, and from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken from him. "
He also said: "This is the kingdom of God, as when a man puts seed in the ground.
He sleeps at night and wakes up by day, and the seed sprouts and grows without him knowing how.
Because the earth itself bears fruit: first the stalk, then the ears, and then the full grain in the ear.
And when the fruit has been produced, he immediately puts in the sickle because the harvest has come. "
He also said: "To what will we make the kingdom of God similar? With what parable will we compare it?
It is like a mustard seed that, when planted in the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth.
But once planted, it grows and becomes the largest of all vegetables, and it sprouts very large branches so that the birds of the sky can nest under its shadow. "
In many such parables he spoke the word to them according to what they could hear.
He did not speak to them without parables, but in private he explained everything to his disciples.
That day, at dusk, he said to them: "Let's go to the other side."
And after dismissing the crowd, they received him as he was, in the boat. And there were other boats with him.
Then a great windstorm arose, throwing the waves into the boat so that the boat was already flooded.
And he was in the stern, sleeping on the head, but they woke him up saying: "Master!" Don't you care that we perish?
And waking up, he rebuked the wind and said to the sea: "Shut up!" Be silent! And the wind stopped and there was a great bonanza.
And he said to them, "Why are you scared?" Still have no faith?
They feared with great fear; and they said to each other, "Then who is this that even the wind and the sea obey him?"
