Two days later it was Easter and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and scribes were looking for how to deceive him and kill him
because they said: "Not at the party, so that there is no fuss in the town."
While he was at Bethany sitting at the table in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came carrying a bottle of alabaster with perfume of pure tuberose of great price. And breaking the alabaster jar, he poured it on the head of Jesus.
But there were some there who were outraged at each other and said: "What was this waste of perfume made for?"
Because this perfume could have been sold for almost a year of salary and given to the poor. And they murmured against her,
but Jesus said, "Leave her alone." Why are you bothering her? She has done a good deed with me.
Because you always have the poor with you, and when you want you can do them good, but you don't always have me.
She has done what she could, because she has anticipated anointing my body for burial.
Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what it has done will also be counted in remembrance of it.
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to deliver it to him.
When they heard it, they were happy and promised to give him money. And he was looking for how to deliver it in a timely manner.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when they were sacrificing the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, "Where do you want us to go and make arrangements for you to eat Easter?"
He sent two of his disciples and said to them, "Go into the city, and a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you." Follow it
and, where you enter, say to the owner of the house: "The Master says: 'Where is my room where I will eat Easter with my disciples?'".
And he will show you a large upper room already arranged and prepared. Prepare there for us.
His disciples went out, entered the city, found as he had said and prepared the Passover.
At dusk it was with the twelve
And when they were sitting at the table eating, Jesus said: "Truly I tell you, one of you, who is eating with me, is going to deliver me."
Then they began to get sad and say to him one after another: "Could it be me?"
He said to them, "It is one of the twelve who dips the bread with me on the plate."
In truth, the Son of Man goes, just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It were good for that man if he had not been born.
While they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it; He broke it, gave it to them and said: "Here; this is my body.
Taking the cup, and having given thanks, he gave and drank all of it.
And he said to them, "This is my covenant blood, which is shed for many.
Truly, I say to you, I will no longer drink the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, "Everyone will be scandalized by me; for it is written: I will strike the Shepherd and the sheep will be scattered.
But after I am risen, I will go before you to Galilee.
Then Pedro said to him: "Although everyone is scandalized, I am not."
Jesus said to him, "I tell you the truth, today, tonight, before the rooster has crowed twice, you will deny me three times."
But he said more insistently, "Even if it is necessary for me to die with you, I will never deny you." And they all said the same.
They came to the place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, "Sit here while I pray."
He took Peter, James, and John with him, and began to grieve and anguish.
And he said to them: —My soul is very sad, until death. Stay here and watch.
Passing a little further, he prostrated himself on the ground and prayed that, if possible, that hour would pass from him.
He said: "Abba, Father, everything is possible for you!" Take this cup away from me! But not what I want, but what you want.
He returned and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, "Simon, are you sleeping?" Could you not watch a single hour?
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit, in truth, is willing but the flesh is weak.
Again he turned away and prayed saying the same words.
When he came again, he found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy with sleep. And they did not know what to answer him.
He came back a third time and said, "Are you still sleeping and resting?" Enough already. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up, come on! Behold, he that betrays me is at hand.
Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, arrived, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs from the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.
The one who delivered it had given them a signal saying: "The one I kiss, that is it. Take him and take him safely."
When he arrived, he immediately approached him and said: "Rabbi!" And kissed him.
Then they laid hands on him and seized him;
but one of those who were there, drawing his sword, struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Jesus answered and said to them, "Like an assailant, have you come out with swords and clubs to seize me?"
Every day I was in front of you teaching in the temple, and you did not arrest me. But so it is, so that the Scriptures are fulfilled.
Then all his own abandoned him and fled.
But a certain young man, having covered his naked body with a sheet, followed him; and turned it on.
But he, leaving the sheet, fled naked.
They brought Jesus before the high priest; And all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes met with him.
And Peter followed him from afar into the courtyard of the high priest, and he sat with the guards and warmed himself before the fire.
The chief priests and the entire Sanhedrin sought testimony against Jesus to hand him over to death, but could not find him.
Because many gave false testimony against Jesus, but their testimonies did not agree.
Then some got up and gave false testimony against him saying:
—We heard him say: "I will demolish this temple that has been made with hands, and in three days I will build another one made without hands."
But even so, their testimony did not agree.
Then the high priest rose in the middle and asked Jesus, saying, "You don't answer anything?" What do these testify against you?
But he was silent and did not answer anything. Again the high priest asked him and said: —Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Jesus said to him, "I am." And also, they will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothing and said, "What more need do we have of witnesses?"
You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him as a prisoner of death.
Some began to spit on him, cover his face, and slap him saying, "Prophesy!" The guards also slapped him.
As Peter was down in the courtyard, one of the high priest's maids came.
When she saw Peter warming up, she noticed him and said: "You were also with Jesus of Nazareth!"
But he denied saying: "I do not know him, nor do I know what you are saying." And he went out to the entrance, and the rooster crowed.
When the maid saw him, she began again to say to those who were there, "This is one of them."
But he denied again. A little later, those who were there said to Peter again: —You truly are one of them, because you are a Galilean.
But he began to curse and swear: "I don't know this man they are talking about!"
And immediately the rooster crowed a second time; and Peter remembered the word that Jesus had said to him: "Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times." And thinking about it, he wept.