Then he began to speak to them in parables: —A man planted a vineyard. He surrounded her with a fence, dug a winepress, built a tower, leased it to some farmers, and went far away.
In due course he sent a servant to the farmers to receive from the farmers a part of the fruit of the vineyard.
But they took him, wounded him, and sent him empty-handed.
He sent another servant to them again, but that one was wounded in the head and insulted.
And he sent another, and this one they killed. He sent many others, but they wounded some and killed others.
"Still having a beloved son of his, finally, he also sent it to them saying:" They will have respect for my son. "
But those farmers said to each other, "This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours."
And they seized him, killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard.
"What then will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come, destroy the farmers, and give the vineyard to others.
Have you not read this Scripture: The stone that the builders rejected, this one was made head of angle.
From the Lord did this happen, and is it wonderful in our eyes? .
They tried to catch him, but they feared the crowd because they knew that in that parable he had referred to them. And leaving him, they left.
So some of the Pharisees and Herodians were sent to him to surprise him in a word.
And when they came, they said to him: "Master, we know that you are a real man and that you don't take care of anyone because you don't look at the appearance of men, but you really teach the way of God." Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar or not? Will we give or not give?
Then he, as he understood their hypocrisy, said: "Why are you testing me?" Bring me a Roman coin for me to see.
They brought it to him, and he said to them, "Whose is this image and this inscription?" They said to him, "From Caesar."
Then Jesus said to them, "Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's." And they marveled at him.
Then some Sadducees came to him, saying that there is no resurrection, and they asked him saying:
"Master, Moses wrote to us that if someone's brother dies and leaves a woman and does not leave children, his brother take the woman and raise offspring for his brother."
There were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died leaving no offspring.
The second took it and died without leaving offspring. The third, in the same way.
Thus the seven left no offspring. After everyone died, the woman died, too.
In the resurrection, when they are resurrected, since the seven had her as a wife, whose wife will she be?
Then Jesus said to them, "Is this not why you are wrong, because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God?
Because when they rise from the dead, they will not marry or be married, but they are like the angels in heaven.
And regarding the resurrection of the dead, have you not read in the book of Moses, how God spoke to him from the bush saying: I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob?
God is not the God of the dead but of the living. You guys are so wrong.
One of the scribes approached him when he heard them arguing and, realizing that Jesus had responded well, asked him: "What is the first commandment of all?"
Jesus answered him, "The first is: Listen, Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
And you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind and with all your strength.
The second is this: You will love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these two.
Then the scribe said to him, "Well, Master. You have spoken the truth: God is one, and there is no other besides him,
and loving him with all the heart, with all the understanding and with all the strength, and loving the neighbor as oneself, is worth more than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
And when Jesus saw that he had answered wisely, he said to him: “You are not far from the kingdom of God. No one dared ask him any more questions.
While he was teaching in the temple, Jesus responding said: —How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
David himself said through the Holy Ghost: The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet."
David himself calls him "Lord"; What is your son like then? And the great crowd listened with pleasure.
And in his teaching he said: "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long clothes, who love greetings in the squares,
the first chairs in the synagogues and the first seats at the banquets.
These, who devour the houses of the widows and as a pretext make long prayers, will receive greater condemnation.
As Jesus sat in front of the treasure chest, he watched the people pour money into the ark. Many rich people threw a lot,
and a poor widow came and tossed two small coins of little value.
He called his disciples and said to them, "Truly I tell you, this poor widow threw more than all those who threw in the ark.
For they have all cast out of their abundance; but this, of its poverty, threw everything what it had, all its sustenance.