In those days, since there was a large crowd again and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples and said:
—I have compassion for the crowd, because they've been with me for three days and they don't have anything to eat.
If I fire them at home on an empty stomach, they will pass out on the way; and some of them have come from afar.
His disciples answered him: "From where can someone satisfy these with bread here in the desert?"
And he asked them: —How many loaves do they have? They said, "Seven."
Then he commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground. He took the seven loaves and, having given thanks, broke them and gave them to his disciples to serve them. And they served them to the crowd.
They also had a few little fish. And after blessing them, he commanded that they also be served.
They ate and were satisfied, and they collected seven baskets from the pieces that were left over.
And they were like four thousand. He fired them;
and then, entering the boat with his disciples, he went to the Dalmanuta region.
The Pharisees came out and began to argue with him, asking him for a sign from heaven, to test him.
He sighed deeply in his spirit and said, "Why is this generation asking for a sign? Truly I tell you, no sign will be given to this generation."
And leaving them, he went back into the boat and crossed to the other shore.
They had forgotten to bring bread, and had only one loaf with them in the boat.
And he commanded them, saying: —Look; beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
They argued with each other, because they had no bread.
As Jesus understood, he said to them: "Why are you arguing?" Why don't they have bread? Do you still not understand or understand? Have your hearts hardened?
Having eyes, don't you see? Having ears, don't you hear? Don't you remember?
When I broke the five loaves out of five thousand, how many baskets full of pieces did they collect? They said, "Twelve."
"And when I distributed the seven loaves among the four thousand, how many baskets full of pieces did they collect?" They said, "Seven."
He asked them, "Do you still not understand?"
Jesus went to Bethsaida, and they brought him a blind man and asked him to touch him.
Then, taking the blind man by the hand, he led him out of the village. After wetting his eyes with saliva and laying his hands on him, he asked, "Do you see anything?"
As he looked, he said, "I see men, but I see them as walking trees."
Then he put his hands over his eyes again, and the blind man looked intently. And his sight was restored, and he saw everything from afar and clearly.
Then Jesus sent him home, saying, "Don't go into the village.
Jesus and his disciples went out to the villages of Caesarea in Philippi, and on the way he asked his disciples saying: —Who do the people say that I am?
They answered: —One, John the Baptist; others, Elías; others, one of the prophets.
Then he asked them, "But who do you say I am?" Peter answered him and said: "You are the Christ!"
He strongly commanded them not to speak to anyone about him.
Then he began to teach them that it was necessary for the Son of Man to suffer greatly, to be cast aside by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and to be dead and resurrected after three days.
I was telling you this clearly. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
But he turned and, looking at his disciples, rebuked Peter saying: "Get out of front of me, Satan! Because you don't think about the things of God, but about the things of men.
And he called the people to himself, together with his disciples, and said to them: "If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me."
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Well, what use is it to man to win the whole world and lose his life?
Because what will man give as a ransom for his life?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.