He left there and went to his land, and his disciples followed him.
And when Saturday came, he began teaching in the synagogue; and many were astonished when they heard him, and they said: "Where do these things come from?" What wisdom is this that has been given to you? How many powerful works are made by his hands!
Is not this the carpenter, son of Mary and brother of James, Joseph, Judas and Simon? Are not your sisters here with us too? They scandalized him.
But Jesus said to them: “There is no prophet without honor except in his own land, among his relatives and in his house.
And he could not do any powerful deed there, but he healed a few sick people, putting his hands on them.
I was amazed at their unbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
So he called the twelve and started sending them two by two. He gave them authority over unclean spirits.
He commanded them not to carry anything for the journey: neither bread nor bag nor money in the belt but only a cane;
but they should wear sandals and not wear two robes.
And he said to them: "Wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that place.
Any place that does not receive or hear them, leaving there, shake off the dust that is under their feet as a testimony against them. "
So they went out and preached that the people would repent.
They cast out many demons, and anointed many sick with oil and healed them.
King Herod heard about Jesus, because his name had become well known. Some said: "John the Baptist has risen from the dead, and for this reason these powers operate in him."
Others said, "It is Elijah." While others said: "He is a prophet like one of the prophets."
But when Herod heard this, he said, "John, whom I beheaded, has risen!"
Because Herod himself had ordered John to be arrested and had chained him in prison because of Herodia, his brother Philip's wife; because he had married her.
For John said to Herod, "It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife."
But Herodía stalked him and wanted to kill him, although he could not
because Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just and holy man, and protected him. And when he heard it, he was very puzzled, but he could hear him willingly.
An opportune day came when Herod, at his birthday feast, gave a supper for his high officers, the tribunes, and the chief people of Galilee.
Then the daughter of Herodia entered and danced, and pleased Herod and those who were with him at the table; And the king said to the girl, "Ask me for what you want, and I will give it to you."
And he swore to her a lot: "Everything you ask me I will give you, up to half of my kingdom."
She came out and said to her mother, "What shall I ask for?" And she said: —The head of John the Baptist.
Immediately she hurried to the king and asked him saying: —I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptist.
The king was very sad, but because of the oath and those at the table, he did not want to reject it.
Immediately the king sent one of the guard and ordered that John's head be brought. This was it, decapitated him in jail
and carried his head on a plate; He gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
When his disciples heard this, they went and took his body, and put it in a grave.
The apostles met with Jesus and told him everything they had done and what they had taught.
He said to them, "Come aside to a desert place, and rest a little." Because there were many who came and went, and they didn't even have a chance to eat.
And they went alone in the boat to a desert place.
But many saw them go and recognized them. And they ran there on foot from all the cities and arrived before them.
When Jesus came out, he saw a large crowd and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Then he began to teach them many things.
Since the hour was already very late, his disciples approached him and said: —The place is desert and the hour is late.
Dismiss them to go to the surrounding fields and villages and buy themselves something to eat.
He answered them and said: "Give them something to eat." They said to him, "Let us go and buy bread with the salary of more than six months, and feed them?"
He said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" Go and see. When they found out, they said, "Five, and two fish."
He commanded them to have everyone lie down in groups on the green grass.
They lay down in groups, one hundred by one hundred and fifty by fifty.
And he took the five loaves and the two fish and, raising his eyes to heaven, blessed and broke the loaves. Then he was giving his disciples to put them before men, and he also distributed the two fish to everyone.
They all ate and were satisfied,
and they collected twelve baskets full of the pieces of bread and the fish.
And those who ate the loaves were like five thousand men.
Immediately he forced his disciples to enter the boat to go before him to Bethsaida, on the other shore, while he dismissed the crowd.
And having said goodbye to them, he went to the mountain to pray.
At nightfall, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone on land.
Seeing that they got tired paddling because the wind was against them, at dawn, he went to them walking on the sea, and wanted to pass them by.
But when they saw that he was walking on the sea, they thought he was a ghost and shouted out loud;
because they all saw it and were troubled. But immediately he spoke to them and said: "Be of good cheer! I am! Do not be afraid!"
And he got into them in the boat, and the wind died down. They were extremely puzzled,
for they had not yet understood the matter of the loaves; rather, their hearts were hardened.
And when they crossed to the other shore, they reached the land of Genesaret and tied the boat.
But when they got out of the boat, people immediately recognized him.
They traveled all over that region, and began to bring those who were sick on stretchers to where they heard that he was.
Wherever he entered, whether into villages or cities or fields, they put sick people in the squares, and prayed that they could only touch the edge of his cloak. And everyone who touched it was healthy.