And Jesus entered Capernaum again after a few days, and it was heard that he was home.
And immediately many gathered, so many that they didn't even fit at the door; and he preached the word to them.
Then some came to him, bringing a paralytic, who was carried by four.
And because they could not approach him because of the crowd, they uncovered the ceiling where he was and, making an opening, lowered the bed where the paralytic lay.
And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic: Son, your sins are forgiven.
Some of the scribes were sitting there, who, thinking of their hearts,
they said: Why does this man speak like this? Profanity says. Who can forgive sins, but only God?
And instantly knowing Jesus in his spirit that they thought like this within themselves, he said to them: Why do you think these things in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic: Your sins are forgiven, or to say: Get up and take up your bed and walk?
So that you know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins (he said to the paralytic):
To you I say: Get up! Take your bed and go home.
So he got up at once and, taking up his bed, went out in front of everyone, so that everyone was amazed and glorified God, saying: We have never seen such a thing.
And he went out again to the sea, and all the people came to him and taught them.
And as he passed, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the bank of public tributes, and said to him: Follow me. And getting up, he followed him.
And it came to pass that, when Jesus was at the table in his house, many publicans and sinners were also at the table together with Jesus and his disciples, because they were many and had followed him.
And the scribes and the Pharisees, seeing him eat with the publicans and with the sinners, said to the disciples: What is this, that he eats and drinks with the publicans and with the sinners?
And when Jesus heard this, he said to them: The healthy do not need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call repentance to the righteous, but to sinners.
And the disciples of John and those of the Pharisees fasted; And they came and said to him, Why do the disciples of John and the Pharisees fast, and your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Do those who are married fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the husband with them, they cannot fast.
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast in those days.
No one puts a patch of new cloth on an old dress; otherwise, the same new patch pulls on the old one and the breakage becomes worse.
Nor does anyone pour new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the new wine breaks the wineskins, and the wine is spilled and the wineskins are lost, for the new wine in new wineskins is to be poured.
And it came to pass that as he passed through the fields on the Sabbath, his disciples, walking, began to pluck ears of corn.
Then the Pharisees said to him, "Behold, why do you do on the Sabbath that which is not lawful?
And he said to them: Did you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and those who were with him;
How did he enter the house of God, when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, of which it is not lawful to eat but the priests, and even gave to those who were with him?
He also said to them: The Sabbath was made for the sake of man, and not man for the Sabbath.
So the Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath. Episode 2
