And very early in the morning, the chief priests having council with the elders, and with the scribes, and with the whole council, they brought Jesus bound and delivered him to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him: Are you the King of the Jews? And he answered and said to him, You say so.
And the chief priests accused him of many things.
And Pilate asked him again, saying: Do you answer nothing? Look how many things they accuse you of.
But even Jesus did not answer, so Pilate marveled.
Now, on the day of the party they would release a prisoner, anyone they asked for.
And there was one named Barabbas, imprisoned with his riot companions who had committed murder in a revolt.
And when the crowd came, he began to ask me to do as I had always done.
And Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Because he knew that out of envy the chief priests had handed him over.
But the chief priests incited the crowd to release Barabbas rather.
And Pilate answered and said to them again, What then do you want me to do with the one you call King of the Jews?
And they cried out again: Crucify Him!
But Pilate said to them, Why then has he done wrong? But they shouted more: Crucify him!
And Pilate, wanting to satisfy the people, released Barabbas to them and delivered Jesus, after scourging him, to be crucified.
The soldiers then led him into the courtyard, namely the Praetorium, and summoned the entire troop.
And they clothed him in purple and, putting on a crown of thorns,
they began to greet him: Hail, King of the Jews!
And they hit him on the head with a reed, and they spat on him and, on their knees, they bowed to him.
And after they had mocked him, they took off his purple and put on his own clothes and took him out to crucify him.
And they forced a passing man, Simon of Cyrene, father of Alexander and Rufus, who came from the field, to bring him the cross.
And they took him to the place called Golgotha, which when interpreted means: Place of the Skull.
And they gave him to drink wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not drink it.
And when they had crucified him, they distributed their dresses, casting lots for them to see what each one would take.
And it was the third hour when they crucified him.
And the written title of his accusation was: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
They also crucified two thieves with him, one on his right and the other on his left.
Thus was fulfilled the Scripture that says: And with the wicked he was numbered.
And those who passed by insulted him, shaking their heads and saying: Ah, you who demolish the temple of God and rebuild it in three days,
save yourself and come down from the cross.
And in this way also the chief priests, mocking, said to one another, with the scribes: He saved others, but he cannot save himself.
The Christ, King of Israel, now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe! Those who were crucified with him also insulted him.
And when the sixth hour came, there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour, Jesus exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: Eloi, Eloi !, lama sabactani ?, which interpreted means: My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
And when some of those who were there heard him say, Behold, call Elijah.
And one ran and, soaking a sponge in vinegar, put it on a reed and gave him a drink, saying: Leave, let's see if Elijah comes to take him down.
But Jesus, giving a great voice, expired.
Then the veil of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
And the centurion who was before him, when he saw that, after crying thus, had expired, said: Truly this man was the Son of God!
And there were also some women watching from afar, among whom were María Magdalena, and María, the mother of Jacobo, the youngest, and of José and Salomé;
who, while he was still in Galilee, had followed and served him; and many others who together with him had gone up to Jerusalem.
And at sunset, because it was the preparation, that is, the eve of Saturday,
Joseph of Arimathea, a noble member of the council, who also awaited the kingdom of God, came and boldly entered where Pilate was, and asked for the body of Jesus.
And Pilate was surprised that he had already died; and making the centurion come, he asked him if he was already dead.
And informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
He bought a sheet and, going down, wrapped him in the sheet, and put him in a grave that was dug in a rock and rolled a stone at the entrance of the grave.
And Maria Magdalena and María, José's mother, looked where they put it.