He entered the synagogue again, and there was a man with a paralyzed hand.
And they were on the lookout to see if he would heal him on Saturday, in order to accuse him.
Then she said to the man whose hand was paralyzed: "Stand up in the middle!"
And he said to them: —Is it lawful on Saturday to do good or to do bad? Save life or kill? But they were silent.
And looking around them angrily, aching for the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man: "Hold out your hand." And he held it out, and his hand was restored to him.
The Pharisees came out immediately, along with the Herodians, and took advice against him on how to destroy him.
Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and was followed by a great crowd of people from Galilee, from Judea,
From Jerusalem, from Idumea, across the Jordan, and from the environs of Tire and Sidon, a great multitude came to him, because they had heard of the great things he did.
And Jesus told his disciples to always have a boat ready because of the crowd so they would not crowd you;
for he had healed many, so that all who had plagues fell upon him to touch him.
And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and shouted saying: "You are the Son of God!"
But he rebuked them a lot so that they would not make him known.
Then he went up to the mountain and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they came to him.
He constituted twelve, whom he appointed apostles, to be with him, and to send them out to preach
and have the authority to cast out demons.
And he constituted the twelve: Simon (whom he named Peter),
James the son of Zebedee, and James the brother of James (he named them Boanerges; that is, sons of thunder),
to Andrés, to Felipe, to Bartolomé, to Mateo, to Tomás, to Jacobo son of Alfeo, to Tadeo, to Simón el cananita
and Judas Iscariot (the one who delivered him). He came home
and again the crowd gathered so that they could not even eat bread.
When theirs heard it, they went to light it because they said it was beside themselves.
The scribes who had descended from Jerusalem said that he was possessed by Beelzebul and that through the prince of demons he cast out demons.
And having called them to his side, he spoke to them in parables: "How can Satan cast out Satan?
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot remain.
If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot remain.
And if Satan rises up against himself and is divided, he cannot remain but his end has come.
On the contrary, no one can enter a strong man's house and loot his possessions unless he first ties the strong man. And then he will plunder his house.
Truly I say to you, that the sons of men will be forgiven all sins and blasphemies, whatever they may be.
But anyone who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will never have forgiveness but is guilty of eternal sin. "
He said this because they said: "He has an unclean spirit."
So his mother and brothers went, and staying outside they sent to call him.
Many people were sitting around him, and they said to him: “Look, your mother, your brothers and your sisters are looking for you outside.
He answered them, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"
And looking at those who were sitting around him, he said: —Here are my mother and my brothers!
Because anyone who does the will of God, this is my brother, my sister and my mother.