When they arrived near Jerusalem, next to Betfagé and Betania, in front of the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples
And he said to them: —Go to the village in front of you and, when you have entered there, you will immediately find a little donkey tied on which no man has ridden. Untie him and bring him.
And if someone says to them, "Why are you doing that?" Tell them, "The Lord needs you, and then He will send you here again."
They went and found the donkey tied to the door, outside, on the corner of two streets, and untied it.
Some of those who were there said to them: "What are you doing untying the donkey?"
They told them just as Jesus had told them, and they let them go.
They brought the donkey to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it.
Many spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut tree branches.
Those in front and those who followed cheered: "Hosanna!" Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
Blessed the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the high!
Jesus entered Jerusalem, in the temple, and having looked around, as the hour was late, he left for Bethany with the twelve.
The next day, when they left Bethany, he was hungry.
And seeing from a distance a fig tree that had leaves, he approached to see if he found something in it. When he went to her, he found nothing but leaves because it was not fig time.
Then Jesus said to the fig tree: "Never ever eat anyone of your fruit!". And his disciples heard it.
They arrived in Jerusalem and Jesus entered the temple. And he began to cast out those who sold and those who bought in the temple. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those who sold doves,
and he did not consent to anyone crossing the temple carrying any utensil.
And he taught saying: "Is it not written that my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves."
The chief priests and scribes heard it, and sought to kill him; because they were afraid of him because all the people were amazed at his doctrine.
And when night came, Jesus and his family left the city.
In the morning, passing by, they saw that the fig tree had dried from the roots.
Then Peter, remembering, said to him, "Rabbi, behold, the fig tree that you cursed has dried up."
Jesus answered and said to them: "Have faith in God.
Truly, I say to you, anyone who says to this mountain: "Take off and throw yourself into the sea," and who does not doubt his heart but believes that what he says will be done will be done to him.
For this reason I tell you that everything for which you pray and ask, believe that you have received it and it will be done to you.
And when you stand up to pray, if you have something against someone, forgive him so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your offenses.

They returned to Jerusalem. Then, as he walked through the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to him,
and they said to him, "By what authority do you do these things?" Or who gave you the authority to do these things?
Then Jesus said to them, "I will ask you a question." Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me.
Then they reasoned among themselves saying: —If we say "from heaven", he will say: "Why then did they not believe him?"
But if we say "of men ...". They feared the people, because everyone considered that John was truly a prophet.
Then, responding to Jesus, they said: “We don't know. And Jesus said to them, "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.