And two days later it was Passover and the days of unleavened bread; and the chief priests and scribes sought how to deceitfully arrest and kill him.
And they said: Not on the day of the party, so that there is no fuss in the town.
And while he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, and sitting at the table, a woman came who had an alabaster bottle of perfume of pure tuberose of great price; and breaking the flask, he poured it on his head.
Then there were some who were angry within themselves and said: Why was this waste of perfume made?
Because it could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they murmured against her.
But Jesus said: Leave her, why are you bothering her? It has done me good work;
because you will always have the poor with you, and when you want you can do them good; but you won't always have me.
She has done what she could, because she has anticipated anointing my body for burial.
Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what it has done in memory of it will also be recounted.
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to deliver Jesus to them.
And they, upon hearing it, were glad and promised to give him money. And Judas was looking for the right opportunity to hand him over.
And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they were sacrificing the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him: Where do you want us to go to prepare for you to eat Easter?
And he sent two of his disciples and said to them: Go into the city, and a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you; follow him
and where you enter, tell the lord of the house: The Master says: Where is the room where I will eat Easter with my disciples?
Then he will show you a large upper room already prepared; arrange for us there.
And his disciples went, and entered into the city, and found as he had said to them; and they prepared the Passover.
And in the evening, it was with the twelve.
And when they sat at the table while they were eating, Jesus said: Truly I tell you, one of you, who eats with me, is going to hand me over.
So they started to get sad and say one by one: Is it me? And the other: Will it be me?
And he, answering, said to them: It is one of the twelve, the one that dips with me in the plate.
In truth the Son of Man goes, as it is written of him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It was good for that man if he had never been born.
And while they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them, and said: Take, this is my body.
And taking the cup, having given thanks, he gave them, and they all drank from it.
And he said to them: This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many.
Truly, I say to you, I will no longer drink the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And after singing the hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, "You will all be scandalized by me tonight, because it is written: I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter said to him: Although everyone is scandalized, I am not.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today, tonight, before the rooster has crowed twice, you will deny me three times.
But he said more vehemently: If I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same.
And they came to the place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit here, meanwhile I pray.
And he took Peter, and James, and John with him, and began to grieve and to grieve.
And he said to them: My soul is very sad, until death; stay here and watch.
And going a little further, he fell down on the ground and prayed that, if possible, that hour would pass from him,
and he said: Abba, Father, all things are possible for you; take this cup away from me; but not what I want, but what you want.
And he came and found them sleeping; and said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Have not you been able to watch one hour?
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again he went and prayed, and said the same words.
And when he returned, he found them sleeping again, because their eyes were heavy with sleep; and they did not know what to answer him.
And the third time he came and said to them: Sleep now and rest; Enough, the time has come; behold, the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up! Let's go! Behold, he who betrays me is near.
And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, who was one of the twelve, and with him many people with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, and from the scribes and the elders.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; Turn him on and take him safely.
And when he arrived, he immediately approached him and said: Master, Master. And kissed him.
Then they laid hands on him and seized him.
But one of those who were there, drawing the sword, struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
And Jesus answering said to them, Have you come out with swords and sticks to arrest me as against a thief?
Every day I was with you teaching in the temple, and you did not arrest me; but it is so, so that the Scriptures are fulfilled.
Then, leaving him, all his disciples fled.
But a certain young man was still covered with a sheet over his naked body; and the young men apprehended him;
but he, leaving the sheet, fled from them naked.
So they brought Jesus to the high priest; and all the chief priests, and the elders, and the scribes, assembled.
But Peter followed him from a distance into the courtyard of the high priest; and he was sitting with the guards, warming himself on the fire.
And the chief priests and the entire council sought testimony against Jesus, to deliver him to death; but they couldn't find it.
Because many gave false testimony against him, but their testimonies did not agree.
Then some rose and gave false witness against him, saying:
We have heard him say: I will tear down this handmade temple, and in three days I will build another one not made by hand.
But even so, their testimony did not agree.
Then the high priest, rising up in the middle, asked Jesus, saying: Do you answer nothing? What do these testify against you?
But he was silent and nothing answered. The high priest asked him again and said: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said to him: I am; and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power of God and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest, tearing his robes, said: What more need do we have of witnesses?
You have heard the blasphemy; what do you think? And they all condemned him, declaring him worthy of death.
Then some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to slap him and say to him: Prophesy! The guards also slapped him.
And as Peter was down in the courtyard, one of the high priest's maids came;
When she saw Peter warming up, looking at him, she said: You were also with Jesus, the Nazarene.
But he denied it, saying: I do not know him, nor do I know what you say. And he went out to the entrance, and the rooster crowed.
And the maid, seeing him again, began to say to those who were there: This is one of them.
But he denied it again. And shortly after, those who were there said to Peter again: Truly you are theirs, because you are a Galilean, and your speech is similar to theirs.
Then he began to curse and swear: I do not know this man of whom you speak!
And the rooster crowed the second time; Then Peter remembered the words that Jesus had said to him: Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And thinking about it, he wept.