The Pharisees and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem gathered to Jesus.
They saw that some of his disciples were eating bread with impure hands; that is, without washing.
For the Pharisees and all the Jews, if they do not wash their hands to the wrist, they do not eat because they cling to the tradition of the elderly.
When they come back from the market, if they don't wash, they don't eat. And there are many other things that they accepted to keep, such as the washing of the cups, the jugs and the bronze utensils and the couches.
The Pharisees and scribes asked him, "Why don't your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with impure hands?"
And he answered them saying: —Well Isaiah prophesied about you hypocrites, as it is written: This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
And in vain they worship me, teaching doctrine the commandments of men.
Because leaving the commandments of God, they cling to the tradition of men.
He also said to them: —Well they reject the commandment of God to establish their tradition!
Because Moses said: Honor your father and your mother, and: Whoever curses his father or mother dies irretrievably.
But you say that if someone says to his father or mother: "That with which you would have benefited from me is Corban" —that is, an offering to God—,
they no longer allow him to do anything for his father or mother.
Thus they invalidate the word of God through their tradition that they have transmitted, and they do many things similar to these.
Calling himself back to the whole crowd, he said to them, "Hear me all and understand!"
There is nothing outside of man that, by entering him, can contaminate him. But what comes out of man is what contaminates man.
If anyone has ears to hear, listen.
When he entered the house, apart from the crowd, his disciples asked him about the parable.
And he said to them, "So you also lack understanding?" Do you not understand that nothing that enters man from without can contaminate it?
Because it does not enter your heart but your stomach, and you go out into the latrine. So he declared all meals clean.
And he said: —What comes out of man, that contaminates man.
Because from inside, from the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immoralities, robberies, homicides,
adultery, greed, evil, deception, sensuality, envy, blasphemy, insolence and folly.
All these evils come from within and contaminate man.
And rising up, he departed from there to the territories of Tire and Sidon. And he entered a house and did not want anyone to know but he could not hide.
Rather, immediately a woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit heard of him, and came and fell at his feet.
The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician national, and begged her to cast the demon out of her daughter.
But Jesus said to him, "First let the children be satisfied, because it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the puppies."
She answered and said: —Yes, Lord; The little dogs under the table also eat from the crumbs of the children.
Then he said to him, "Because of what you have said, go; the demon has left your daughter.
And when she went home, she found her daughter lying on the bed and that the devil had come out.
When he left the territories of Tire again, he went through Sidon to the Sea of ​​Galilee, crossing the Decapolis territory.
Then they brought him a deaf and stutterer, and begged him to lay a hand on him.
And taking him apart from the crowd, he dipped his fingers into her ears, spat and touched her tongue.
Then, looking at the sky, he sighed and said: "Efata! (this is: Be open).
And immediately his ears were opened and his tongue was untied, and he spoke well.
He commanded them not to tell anyone; but the more he commanded them, the more they proclaimed it.
They marveled beyond measure, saying, "He has done well!" He even makes the deaf hear, and the dumb speak.
