And again he began to teach by the sea, and so many people gathered around him that he entered a boat and sat in it; and all the people were ashore by the sea.
And he taught them many things by parables; and he said to them in his doctrine:
Hear: Behold, the sower went out to sow.
And it came to pass, when sowing, that a part fell by the wayside, and the birds came from heaven and ate it.
And another part fell on rocky ground, where there was not much land; and it sprouted soon, because the earth was not deep.
But when the sun came up, it burned; and because it had no root, it dried up.
And another part fell among thorns; and the thorns grew and drowned it, and it bore no fruit.
And another part fell into good soil, and bore fruit that sprouted and grew; and gave thirty, and sixty-one hundred to one.
Then he said to them: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he was alone, those who were near him, with the twelve, asked him about the parable.
And he said to them: It is given to you to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to those who are outside, by parables they receive all things,
so that seeing, seeing and not perceiving; and hearing, hear and do not understand; lest their sins be converted and forgiven.
And he said to them: Do you not know this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
The sower soweth the word.
And these are the ones along the path where the word is sown; but after they have heard it, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts.
And in the same way, these are those who are sown on rocky places, those who when they have heard the word, immediately take it with joy;
but they have no root in themselves, but are temporary; and when tribulation or persecution comes because of the word, they immediately stumble.
And these are the ones that are sown among thorns, the ones that hear the word,
but the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things enter and choke the word, and it becomes fruitless.
And these are the ones who are sown in good soil, those who hear the word, and receive it and bear fruit, thirty, sixty and one hundred times one.
He also said to them: Is it possible to bring the light to put it under the bushel or under the bed? Isn't it to put it in the limelight?
Because there is nothing hidden that is not to be manifested, nor anything secret that is not to be discovered.
If anyone has ears to hear, listen.
He also said to them: Pay attention to what you hear; For with what you measure, it will be measured, and to you who hear, it will be added to you.
For to the one who has, it will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
He also said: This is the kingdom of God, as when a man puts seed in the ground;
and he sleeps and rises, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows without him knowing how.
For the earth bears fruit in itself: first grass, then ear, then full grain in the ear;
and when the fruit is produced, the sickle is immediately inserted, because the harvest has come.
And he said: What shall we make the kingdom of God like? Or with which parable will we compare it?
It is like the mustard seed that, when planted in the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds in the ground;
but after sowing, it grows and becomes the greatest of all vegetables, and sprouts great branches, so that the birds of heaven may dwell under its shade.
And with many such parables he spoke the word to them, according to what they could hear.
And without parables he did not speak to them; but to his disciples in private he declared everything.
And he said to them that day when it was evening: Let's go to the other side.
And dismissing the crowd, they took him as he was in the boat; and there were also other boats with him.
Then a great windstorm arose, and threw the waves into the boat, so that it was already flooded.
And he was in the stern, sleeping on a headboard, and they woke him up and said to him: Master, are you not careful that we perish?
And rising up, he rebuked the wind and said to the sea: Shut up, be quiet! And the wind ceased, and a great calm.
And he said to them: Why are you so afraid? How can you not have faith?
And they were very afraid and they said to each other: Who is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?