Then he called his twelve disciples and gave them authority over the unclean spirits to cast them out, and to heal all sickness and disease.
The names of the twelve apostles are these: first Simon, called Peter, and his brother Andrew; also Jacobo son of Zebedeo, and his brother Juan;
Felipe and Bartolomé; Thomas and Matthew the publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus;
Simon the Canaanite and Judas Iscariot, who delivered it.
Jesus sent these twelve, giving them instructions saying: "Do not go on the roads of the Gentiles or enter the cities of the Samaritans.
But go, rather, to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And when you go, preach saying, 'The kingdom of heaven is at hand.'
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Of grace they have received; give of grace.
"Do not provide either gold or silver or copper in your belts.
Neither carry bags for the road nor two dresses nor shoes nor a cane; because the worker is worthy of his food.
In whatever city or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you leave.
As you enter the house, greet her.
If the house is worthy, may your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, return your peace to you.
And in case you don't receive them or listen to their words, get out of that house or city and shake the dust off your feet.
Truly, I say to you, on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for those in the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that city.
"Behold, I send you as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be ye therefore as cunning as serpents, and as simple as doves.
Beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and flog you in their synagogues.
They will even be brought before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness to them and to the Gentiles.
But when you hand them over, do not worry about how or what you will speak, for it will be given to you at that hour what to say.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who will speak in you.
"The brother will deliver his brother to death, and the father his son. Children will rise up against their parents and make them die.
And they will be hated by all because of my name. But he who endures to the end will be saved.
And when you are chased in one city, flee to the other. For truly I say to you that you will by no means end all the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
"The disciple is not more than his teacher nor the servant more than his lord.
It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his lord. If the father of the family was called Beelzebul, how much more will they call his family!
So do not fear them. For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed or hidden that will not be known.
What I say to you in private, say it in public; and what you hear in your ear, proclaim it from the rooftops.
Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two little birds sold for a coin? Yet not one of them falls to the ground without the consent of his Father.
For even your hair is all numbered.
So do not fear; you are worth more than many little birds.
"Therefore to everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
And whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
"Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
For I have come to dissent a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And a man's enemies will be those of his own house.
"He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
He who does not take up his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me.
He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
"He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward; and he who receives a righteous man because he is righteous, will receive a righteous man's reward.
Anyone who gives one of these little ones a glass of cold water just because he is my disciple, I tell you the truth, he will never lose his reward. "