Then some Pharisees and scribes from Jerusalem approached Jesus, saying:
"Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders?" Well, they don't wash their hands when they eat bread.
He answered them saying: —Why do you also break God's commandment because of your tradition?
Because God said: Honor your father and your mother, and: Whoever curses his father or mother dies irretrievably.
But you say that anyone who says to his father or mother: "That with which you would have been benefited is my offering to God",
you must not honor your father. "Thus they have invalidated the word of God because of their tradition.
You hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied well of you saying:
These people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me.
And in vain they worship me, teaching doctrine the commandments of men.
Then, calling the crowd, he said: —Hey and understand!
What enters the mouth does not pollute man; but what comes out of the mouth, this contaminates man.
Then the disciples came and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard those words?"
But he answered and said, "Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted.
Leave them. They are blind guides of the blind. But if the blind guide the blind, both will fall into the hole.
Peter answered and said, "Explain this parable to us."
Jesus said, "Do you also lack understanding?"
Don't they understand that everything that goes into the mouth goes to the stomach and goes out to the latrine?
But what comes out of the mouth comes from the heart, and that contaminates man.
Because bad thoughts, homicides, adulteries, sexual immoralities, robberies, false testimonies and blasphemies come from the heart.
These are the things that pollute man, but eating without washing your hands does not pollute man.
When Jesus left there, he went to the regions of Tire and Sidon.
Then a Canaanite woman who had left those regions cried out saying: "Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me!" My daughter is seriously tormented by a demon.
But he didn't answer her a word. Then his disciples approached him and begged him, saying, "Dismiss her, for she cries after us."
And answering he said: —I have not been sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then she came and fell down before him saying: "Lord, help me!"
He answered him saying: —It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the puppies.
And she said, "Yes, Lord." But even puppies eat from the crumbs that fall from their owners' tables.
Then Jesus answered and said to her: —O woman, great is your faith! Be done with you as you want. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
When Jesus left there, he went by the Sea of ​​Galilee, and going up to the mountain he sat there.
Then large crowds approached him, who had with them the lame, the blind, the handicapped, the dumb, and many other sick people. They put them at the feet of Jesus, and he healed them;
so that the people were amazed to see the dumb speaking, the healthy handicapped, the lame walking and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
Jesus called his disciples and said: —I have compassion for the crowd, because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat. I don't want to fire them on an empty stomach, lest they pass out on the way.
Then his disciples said to him: "Where will we get so many loaves in a desert place, as to satisfy such a large crowd?"
Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do they have?" They said, "Seven, and a few little fish."
Then he commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground.
He took the seven loaves and the little fishes, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.
They all ate and were filled, and collected seven baskets full of what was left of the pieces.
Those who ate were four thousand men, not counting women and children.
Then, once the people were dismissed, they got into the boat and went to the Magdala regions.