Then, when Jesus entered the boat, he went to the other side and came to his city.
And behold, they brought him a paralytic lying on a bed; and Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic: Be of good cheer, son; your sins are forgiven.
And behold, some of the scribes said within themselves: This blasphemer.
And Jesus perceiving his thoughts, said: Why do you think badly in your hearts?
Because what is easier, to say: Your sins are forgiven, or to say: Get up and walk?
Well, so that you know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins (he then said to the paralytic): Get up! Take up your bed and go home.
So he got up and went home.
And when the people saw it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such power to men.
And Jesus leaving there, saw a man who was sitting at the bank of public tributes, whose name was Matthew, and said to him: Follow me. And he got up and followed him.
And it came to pass, as he was sitting at the table in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat together at the table with Jesus and his disciples.
And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to their disciples, Why does your Master eat with the publicans and with the sinners?
And when Jesus heard this, he said to them: The healthy do not need a doctor, but the sick.
Go, then, and learn what it means: I want mercy and not sacrifice; for I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Then the disciples of John came to him, saying: Why do we and the Pharisees fast many times, and your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can those who are at weddings mourn while the bridegroom is with them? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast.
And nobody puts a patch of new cloth on an old dress, because such a patch pulls the dress and the breakage becomes worse.
Nor do they pour new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the wineskins are broken, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins are lost; but they pour the new wine into new wineskins, and the one and the other are kept together.
While he spoke these things to them, behold, one of the chiefs came and fell down before him, saying: My daughter has just died; but come and put your hand on it, and it will live.
And Jesus arose and followed him, and his disciples also.
And here is a woman sick with blood flow, for twelve years, approached him from behind and touched the edge of her cloak;
because he said within himself: If I only touched his cloak, I will be healed.
But Jesus, turning and looking at her, said: Be of good cheer, daughter, your faith has healed you. And the woman was healed from that hour.
And when Jesus entered the principal's house, seeing those who played flutes and the people who were bustling,
He said to them: Stand aside, because the girl is not dead, but sleeps. And they made fun of him.
And when the people were cast out, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl got up.
And the fame of that spread throughout that land.
And when Jesus came out of there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying: Have mercy on us, Son of David!
And when they came to the house, the blind came to him; and Jesus said to them: Do you think I can do this? They said: Yes, Lord.
Then he touched their eyes, saying: According to your faith be it done to you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus rigorously commissioned them, saying: See that no one knows.
But they went out and spread his fame throughout that land.
And when they came out, behold, they brought to him a mute demoniac.
And once the demon was cast out, the dumb spoke; And the people marveled, saying: Such a thing has never been seen in Israel.
But the Pharisees said: By the prince of demons he casts out demons.
And Jesus went through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease in the people.
And when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were fatigued and scattered like sheep without a shepherd.
Then he said to his disciples: The harvest is indeed great, but the workers are few.
Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.