Having entered the boat, Jesus went to the other shore and came to his own city.
Then they brought him a paralytic lying on a stretcher. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic: "Be of good cheer, son; your sins are forgiven.
Behold, some of the scribes said among themselves: —This blasphemer!
And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Why do you think ill of your hearts?"
Because what is easier to say: "Your sins are forgiven you" or to say: "Get up and walk"?
But so that they know that the Son of Man has the authority to forgive sins on earth, ”he said to the paralytic,“ Get up; take your mat and go home!
And he got up and went home.
When the crowds saw this, they feared and glorified God, who had given men such authority. Matthew's call
Passing from there, Jesus saw a man named Matthew, sitting in the place of public tributes, and said, "Follow me!" And he got up and followed him.
It happened that, while Jesus was sitting at the table at home, behold, many publicans and sinners who had come were sitting at the table with Jesus and his disciples.
And when the Pharisees saw him, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?"
Hearing this, Jesus said to them, "The healthy do not need a doctor, but the sick.
Go, then, and learn what it means: I want mercy and not sacrifice. Because I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners. Questions about fasting
Then the disciples of John went to Jesus and said: —Why do we and the Pharisees fast frequently but your disciples do not fast?
Jesus said to them, "Can those who are married have mourning while the bridegroom is with them?" But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast.
No one puts a patch of new fabric on an old dress, because the patch pulls on the dress and the tear becomes worse.
Nor do they pour new wine into old wineskins, because the wineskins are broken, the wine is spilled and the wineskins are spoiled. Rather, they pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved. Jesus heals a woman
As he spoke these things, behold, a leading man came and fell down before him, saying, "My daughter has just died." But come and put your hand on it, and it will live.
Jesus rose and followed him with his disciples.
And behold, a woman who had been bleeding for twelve years came up behind him and touched the hem of his cloak;
because she thought within herself: "If I only touch her dress, I will be healed."
But Jesus, turning and looking at her, said: "Be of good cheer, daughter, your faith has saved you." And the woman was healed from that hour. Jesus resurrects a girl
When Jesus came to the principal's house and saw those who played the flutes and the crowd that was bustling,
He said to them: "Get away, because the girl is not dead, but is sleeping." And they made fun of him.
When they had taken the people out, he went in and took her by the hand; and the girl got up.
And this news went out all over that land. Jesus heals two blind men
As Jesus passed by, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, "Have mercy on us, son of David!"
When he arrived at the house, the blind came to him. And Jesus said to them, "Do you think I can do this?" They said, "Yes, Lord."
Then he touched their eyes saying: —According to your faith it be done to you.
And their eyes were opened. Then Jesus charged them rigorously saying: —Look that nobody knows it.
But they went out and spread their fame throughout that land. Jesus heals a mute demoniac
While they were leaving, behold, they brought to him a dumb demonized man.
And as soon as the demon was cast out, the dumb spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, "Such a thing has never been seen in Israel!"
But the Pharisees said: —By the prince of demons he casts out demons. Jesus sympathizes with the people
Jesus toured all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease.
And when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd.
Then he said to his disciples: "In truth, the harvest is great, but the workers are few.
Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. "