Because the kingdom of heaven is similar to a landowner who left very early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard.
And having agreed with the workers on a denarius a day, he sent them to his vineyard.
And he went out at about the third hour, and he saw others who were out of work standing in the square;
and to these he said, "Go also into the vineyard, and I will give you whatever is right." And they went.
He went out again at around the sixth hour and at the ninth, and did the same.
And leaving at about the eleventh hour, he found other unemployed, and said to them: "Why have you been standing here all day without working?"
They said to him *: "Because no one hired us." He said to them *: "Go also to the vineyard."
And at dusk, the lord of the vineyard * said to his steward: "Call the workers and pay them their wages, starting with the last to the first."
When those who had been hired arrived around the eleventh hour, each received a denarius.
And when those who were hired first arrived, they thought they would receive more; but they also received one denarius each.
And when they received it, they murmured against the landowner,
Saying, "The latter have worked only an hour, but you have made them equal to us who have borne the weight and scorching heat of the day."
But he answered and said to one of them: "Friend, I do you no injustice; did you not agree with me on a denarius?
Take what is yours and go; but I want to give the latter the same as you.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I want with what is mine? Or is your eye bad because I am good? "
Thus, the last will be first, and the first last.
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death;
And they will deliver him up to the Gentiles to mock him, scourge him and crucify him, and on the third day he will rise again.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him with her sons, prostrating himself before him and asking him for something.
And He said to her: What do you want? She said to him *: Order that in your kingdom these two sons of mine sit one on your right and the other on your left.
But Jesus answered and said: You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the cup that I'm going to drink? They said to him *: We can.
He said to them *: You will certainly drink my cup, but to sit on my right and on my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those who have been prepared by my Father.
Hearing this, the ten were outraged against the two brothers.
But Jesus, calling them to himself, said: You know that the rulers of the Gentiles rule over them, and that the great ones exercise authority over them.
It must not be so among you, but whoever wants to become great among you will be your servant,
and whoever wants to be first among you will be your servant;
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
As they left Jericho, a large crowd followed.
And behold, two blind men who were sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!
And the people rebuked them for being silent, but they shouted even more, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!
Jesus stopped, called them, and said: What do you want me to do for you?
They said to him *: Lord, we want our eyes to be opened.
Then Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight, and followed him.