As Jesus spoke, he spoke to them again in parables, saying:
The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who made a wedding feast for his son.
And he sent his servants to call those who had been invited to the wedding, but they refused to come.
Again he sent other servants, saying: Say to those who have been invited, "See, I have already prepared my feast; I have killed my steers and fattened animals, and everything is rigged; come to the wedding."
But they ignored it and went: one to their field, another to their businesses,
and the rest, seizing the servants, mistreated and killed them.
Then the king was enraged, and sending his armies, he destroyed those assassins and burned his city.
Then he * said to his servants, "The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy.
Go, therefore, to the exits of the roads, and invite to the weddings as many as you find. "
And those servants went out on the roads, and gathered all they found, both bad and good; and the wedding hall filled with diners.
But when the king came to see the diners, he saw one there who was not dressed in a wedding suit,
and said to him *: "Dude, how did you get in here without a wedding outfit?" And he fell silent.
Then the king said to the servants, "Tie his hands and feet, and cast him into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Because many are called, but few are chosen.
Then the Pharisees left and deliberated among themselves how to catch him, surprising him in some words.
And they sent him * his disciples along with the Herodians, saying: Master, we know that you are truthful and that you teach the way of God with truth, and you do not seek the favor of anyone, because you are impartial.
Tell us, then, what you think: Is it lawful to pay a tax to Caesar, or not?
But Jesus, knowing his malice, said: Why are you testing me, hypocrites?
Show me the currency that is used to pay that tax. And they brought him a denarius.
And He said to them *: Whose is this image and this inscription?
They said to him *: Of Caesar. Then He said to them, * Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
Hearing this, they marveled; and leaving him, they went away.
That day some Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) approached him, and asked him,
Saying: Master, Moses said: "If anyone dies without children, his brother, as a closest relative, will marry his wife and raise offspring for his brother."
Now there were seven brothers among us; and the first married, and died; but having no offspring, he left the woman to his brother;
in the same way also the second, and the third, up to the seventh.
And after all, the woman died.
Therefore, in the resurrection, of which seven will she be a woman? Because they all had it.
But Jesus answered and said to them: You are mistaken for not understanding the Scriptures or the power of God.
Because in the resurrection, they are neither married nor given in marriage, but they are like the angels of God in heaven.
And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was told you by God, when he said:
"I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
Hearing this, the crowds were amazed at his teaching.
But when the Pharisees heard that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together;
and one of them, interpreter of the law, asked him to test him:
Master, what is the great commandment of the law?
And He said to him: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.
This is the great and the first commandment.
And the second is similar to this: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.
As the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
saying: What is your opinion about the Christ? Who's his father? They said to him *: Of David.
He said to them *: Then how is it that David in the Spirit calls him "Lord", saying:
"The Lord said to my Lord," Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet ""?
For if David calls him "Lord," how is he his son?
And no one could answer him a word, nor from that day dared to ask him any more questions.