Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil.
And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.
And the tempter came to him and said: If you are the Son of God, say that these stones become bread.
But he answering said, It is written: Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.
Then the devil took him to the holy city, and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple
And he said to him: If you are the Son of God, lay down, because it is written: He will command his angels for you, and they will carry you in his hands, so that you do not trip over your foot on stone.
Jesus said to him, It is also written: You shall not tempt the Lord your God.
Again the devil took him to a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory,
And he said to him: All this I will give you, if you worship me prostrate.
Then Jesus said to him: Go, Satan, for it is written: You shall worship the Lord your God and him only you shall serve.
The devil then left him, and behold, the angels came and served him.
When Jesus heard that John was in prison, he returned to Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth, he came and lived in Capernaum, a maritime city, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,
so that what was said through the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, when he said:
The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, on the way to the sea, across the Jordan, the Galilee of the Gentiles;
the people settled in darkness saw a great light; and to those settled in the region and shadow of death, light shone.
Since then Jesus began to preach and say: Repent, because the kingdom of heaven has drawn near!
And as Jesus walked along the Sea of ​​Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, who cast the net in the sea, because they were fishermen.
And he said to them: Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.
And going from there, he saw two other brothers, Jacobo son of Zebedeo, and Juan, his brother, in the boat with Zebedeo, his father, mending their nets; and called them.
And they, instantly leaving the boat and his father, followed him.
And Jesus went all over Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease in the people.
And his fame spread throughout Syria, and they brought to him all who were afflicted: those afflicted with various diseases and torments, and the possessed, and the lunatics and the paralytics, and he healed them.
And great multitudes followed him from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and across the Jordan.