When he came down from the mountain, many people followed him.
And behold, a leper came and fell down before him, saying, "Lord, if you want, you can clean me!"
Jesus reached out and touched him saying, "I want to." Be clean! And immediately he was cleansed of the leprosy.
Then Jesus said to him, "Look, don't tell anyone; But go, show yourself to the priest and offer the offering that Moses sent, as a testimony to them.
When Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him and asked him
saying, "Sir, my servant is bedridden, paralyzed, and in terrible pain."
And he said to him, "I will go and heal him."
The centurion answered and said, "Sir, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof." Just say the word and my servant will be healed.
Because I am also a man under authority and I have soldiers under my command. If I say to this one, "Go," he goes; if I say to the other: "Come", he comes; and if I say to my servant, "Do this," he does it.
When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, “Truly, I say to you, I have not found so much faith in anyone in Israel.
And I tell you that many will come from the east and the west and will sit with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven,
but the children of the kingdom will be cast into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then Jesus said to the centurion, "Go, and as you believed it be done to you." And his servant was healed at that hour.
Jesus entered Peter's house and saw that Peter's mother-in-law was bedridden with a fever.
He touched her hand, and the fever left her. Then she got up and started serving him.
In the evening, many demoniacs were brought to him. With his word he cast out the spirits and healed all the sick,
so that what was said could be fulfilled through the prophet Isaiah, who said: He himself took our weaknesses and bore our diseases.
When he was surrounded by a crowd, Jesus ordered them to go to the other shore.
Then a scribe came up to him and said, "Master, I will follow you wherever you go."
Jesus said to him, "The foxes have caves, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
Another of his disciples said to him, "Sir, let me first go and bury my father."
But Jesus said to him, "Follow me and let the dead bury their dead."
He entered the boat, and his disciples followed him.
And suddenly a storm arose so great in the sea that the waves covered the boat, but he slept.
And approaching, they woke him up saying: "Lord, save us, we perish!"
And he said to them: "Why are you afraid, you men of little faith?" Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
The men marveled and said: —What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
Once they reached the other shore, in the region of the Gadarenes, two demoniacs who had come out of the tombs met him. They were extremely violent, so much so that no one could go that way.
And behold, they cried out saying, "What have you got with us, Son of God?" Have you come here to torment us before the time?
Far from them a large herd of pigs was grazing,
and the demons begged him saying: —If you throw us out, send us to that herd of pigs.
He said to them: "Go! They went out and went to the pigs, and behold, the whole herd of pigs jumped into the sea from a cliff and died in the water.
Those who fed the pigs fled, went to the city and told everything, even what had happened to the demoniacs.
And behold, the whole city met Jesus and, when they saw him, they begged him to leave their territories.