Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil.
And after fasting forty days and forty nights, then he was hungry.
And the tempter came up and said to him: If you are the Son of God, say that these stones become bread.
But He answering said: It is written: "Man will not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes out of the mouth of God."
Then the devil took him * to the holy city, and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple,
And he said to him: "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written:" He will entrust you to his angels ", and:" They will take you into their hands, lest your foot trip on a stone. "
Jesus said to him: It is also written: "You shall not tempt the Lord your God."
Again the devil took him * to a very high mountain, and showed him * all the kingdoms of the world and their glory,
And he said to him, "All this I will give you, if you fall down and worship me."
Then Jesus said to him *: Go, Satan! For it is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and him alone shall you serve."
The devil then left him *; and behold, angels came and served him.
When He heard that John had been imprisoned, he withdrew to Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth, he went and settled in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zabulon and Naphtali;
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, when he said:
Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, across the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles!
The people settled in darkness saw a great light, and to those who lived in the region and shadow of death, a light shone.
Since then Jesus began to preach and say: Repent, because the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.
And walking along the Sea of ​​Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, because they were fishermen.
And he said to them *: Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Then they, instantly leaving the nets, followed him.
And passing from there, he saw two other brothers, James, son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with his father Zebedee, mending their nets, and called them.
And they, instantly leaving the boat and his father, followed him.
And Jesus went all over Galilee, teaching in his synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease in the people.
And his fame spread throughout Syria; and they brought to Him all who were sick, afflicted with various diseases and pains, demonized, epileptic and paralytic; and He healed them.
And large crowds followed him from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, and Judea, and from across the Jordan.