And it happened that when Jesus finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he went from there to teach and preach in their cities.
And when John heard in prison of the works of Christ, he commanded through his disciples
to say to him: Are you the one to come, or will we wait for someone else?
And Jesus answering said to them, Go and tell John what you hear and see:
the BLIND receive SIGHT and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the GOSPEL IS ANNOUNCED TO THE POOR.
And blessed is he who is not scandalized by me.
As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Look, those who wear thin robes are in the palaces of the kings.
But what did you go out to see? To a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and one who is more than a prophet.
This is the one about whom it is written: "BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY BEFORE YOU."
Truly I tell you that among those born of women no one greater than John the Baptist has risen; however, the smallest in the kingdom of heaven is greater than him.
And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent conquer it by force.
Because all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if you want to accept it, he is Elías, the one who was to come.
He who has ears, let him hear.
But what will I compare this generation to? It is similar to the boys who sit in the squares, who call out to others,
and they say: "We played the flute for you, and you didn't dance; we sang lays, and you didn't regret it."
Because Juan came who did not eat or drink, and they say: "He has a devil."
The Son of Man came, who eats and drinks, and they say: "Look, a gluttonous man and a wine drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners." But wisdom is justified by its deeds.
Then he began to scold the cities where he had done most of his miracles, because they had not repented.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Betsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have long ago repented in sackcloth and ashes.
That is why I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, will you be raised to heaven? You will descend to Hades! Because if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until today.
However, I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment for the land of Sodom will be more tolerable than for you.
At that time, Jesus speaking, said: I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you hid these things from wise and intelligent, and revealed them to children.
Yes, Father, because it was to your liking.
All things have been delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wants to reveal.
Come to me, all of you who are tired and burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart, and YOU WILL FIND REST FOR YOUR SOULS.
Because my yoke is easy and my load is light.
