It happened that, when Jesus finished these words, he left Galilee and went to the borders of Judea, across the Jordan.
Large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
Then the Pharisees approached him to test him, saying, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?"
He answered and said: "Have you not read that the one who created them in the beginning made them male and female?"
And he said: "For this reason a man will leave his father and mother, and will be united to his wife; and the two will be one flesh."
So they are no longer two, but one meat. Therefore, what God has united, man does not separate.
They said to him, "Why, then, did Moses send you a letter of divorce and dismiss her?"
He said to them, "Given his hardness of heart, Moses allowed them to divorce their wives; but from the beginning it was not.
And I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another commits adultery.
His disciples said to him, "If this is the case with a man and his wife, it is not convenient to marry."
Then he said to them: “Not everyone is capable of accepting this word, but those to whom it is granted.
Because there are eunuchs who were born like this from the mother's womb, there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He who can accept this, let him accept it.
Then some children were presented to him, so that he would put his hands on them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them.
Then Jesus said to them, "Leave the children and do not prevent them from coming to me, for such is the kingdom of heaven.
And having laid hands on them, he departed from there. Jesus and the rich young man
Behold, one came to him and said to him: - Master, what good thing will I do to have eternal life?
He said to her, "Why are you asking me about the good?" There is only one that is good. But if you want to enter life, keep the commandments.
He said, "Which ones?" Jesus replied, "You will not commit murder, you will not commit adultery, you will not steal, you will not bear false witness,
Honor your father and mother, and you will love your neighbor as yourself.
The young man said to him: "All this I have kept." What else am I missing?
Jesus said to him, "If you want to be perfect, go, sell your goods and give it to the poor; and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But when the young man heard the word he left sad because he had many possessions.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly, I say to you, it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, "Then who can be saved?"
Jesus looked at them and said: —For men this is impossible, but for God everything is possible.
Then Peter answered and said to him: "Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you. So what is there for us?
Jesus said to them, "Truly I say to you that in the time of regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel .
And whoever leaves houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or woman, or children, or fields because of my name, will receive a hundred times more and inherit eternal life.
But many first will be last, and many last will be first.