And when Jesus came down from the mountain, many people followed him.
And behold, a leper came and worshiped him, saying: Lord, if you want, you can cleanse me.
And Jesus extending his hand, touched him, saying: I want; Be clean. And instantly his leprosy was cleansed.
Then Jesus said to him: Look, don't tell anyone; If not, show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses sent, as a testimony to them.
And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him
and saying: Lord, my servant lies at home, paralyzed, seriously tormented.
And Jesus said to him, I will go and heal you.
And the centurion answered and said: Lord, I am not worthy that you enter under my roof; but just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Because I too am a man under authority and I have soldiers under my command; and I say to this: Go, and go; and to the other: Come and come; and to my servant: Do this, and it does.
And when Jesus heard it, he marveled and said to those who followed him: Truly, I say to you, not even in Israel have I found so much faith.
And I tell you, many will come from the east and the west, and will sit with Abraham, and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven;
but the children of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then Jesus said to the centurion: Go, and as you believed it be done to you. And his servant was healed in that hour.
And when Jesus went to Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law bedridden with fever.
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she got up and served them.
And when it was already late, many possessed were brought to him; and cast out demons with his word and healed all the sick,
so that what was said by the prophet Isaiah could be fulfilled, who said: He himself took our illnesses and took our ailments.
And when Jesus saw many people around him, he sent them to the other side.
And a scribe approached him and said, Master, I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him, Foxes have dens, and birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
And another of his disciples said to him: Lord, allow me to go first and bury my father.
And Jesus said to him: Follow me; let the dead bury their dead.
And when he entered the boat, his disciples followed him.
And behold, a great storm arose in the sea, so that the waves covered the boat; but he slept.
And his disciples came up and woke him up, saying: Lord, save us, we are perishing!
And he said to them: Why do you fear, you of little faith? Then rising up, he rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
And the men marveled, saying, What man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
And when he had reached the other bank, to the country of the Gergesen, two demoniacs came out to meet him, coming out of the tombs, very fierce, so that no one could go that way.
And behold, they cried, saying: What have we to do with you, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?
And a herd of many pigs was grazing far from them.
And the demons begged him, saying: If you cast us out, let us go to that herd of pigs.
And he said to them: Go. And they went out and went to that herd of pigs; and behold, all the herd of pigs rushed into the sea from a cliff, and died in the waters.
And those who looked after the pigs fled and, coming to the city, they told all the things and what had happened to the devils.
And behold, the whole city went out to meet Jesus; And when they saw him, they begged him to come out of their surroundings.