Six days later, Jesus took * Peter with him, Jacoboy with John his brother, and took them * apart to a high mountain;
and was transfigured before them; and his face shone like the sun, and his garments turned white as light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them speaking with Him.
Then Peter, taking the floor, said to Jesus: Lord, it is good to be here; If you want, I will make three branches here, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
While I was still speaking, behold, a luminous cloud covered them; And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased; Hear him.
When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified.
Then Jesus approached them, and touching them, said: Arise, and fear not.
And when they raised their eyes they saw no one but Jesus alone.
As they were descending the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying: Tell no one about the vision until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And He answering said, Elijah certainly comes, and will restore all things;
But I tell you that Elijah has already come and they did not recognize him, but did everything they wanted to him. So also the Son of Man will suffer at their hands.
Then the disciples understood that he had told them about John the Baptist.
When they reached the crowd, a man approached him, kneeling before him, saying:
Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is epileptic and suffers terribly, because many times he falls into the fire and many times into the water.
And I brought it to your disciples and they couldn't cure it.
Jesus answered and said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I have to bear you? Bring it to me here.
And Jesus rebuked him and the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed from that moment.
Then the disciples, coming to Jesus in private, said: Why we could not expel him?
And He * said to them: Because of your little faith; for truly I say to you that if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, "Go from here to there," and it will pass; and nothing will be impossible for you.
But this class comes out only with prayer and fasting.
As they walked through Galilee together, Jesus said to them: The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.
And they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise again. And they were very sad.
When they arrived at Capernaum, those who collected the tax of two drachmas approached Pedro and said: Does your master not pay the two drachmas?
He said *: Yes. And when he got home, Jesus anticipated him, saying: What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the land, their children or strangers collect tributes or taxes?
And when he answered: Of strangers, Jesus said to him: Then the children are exempt.
However, lest we scandalize them, go to the sea, cast the hook, and take the first fish that comes out; and when you open his mouth you will find a stater; take it and give it to you and me.
