And Jesus getting into a boat, he went to the other side and came to his city.
And they brought him a paralytic lying on a stretcher; and Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic: Take heart, son, your sins are forgiven.
And some of the scribes said to themselves: This blasphemer.
And Jesus, knowing his thoughts, said: Why do you think badly in your hearts?
Because what is easier, to say: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up and walk"?
So that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (then he said * to the paralytic): Get up, take your mat and go home.
And he getting up, went home.
But when the crowds saw this, they were afraid, and glorified God, who had given such power to men.
When Jesus left there, he saw a man named Matthew, sitting in the tribute office, and said to him *: Follow me! And getting up, he followed him.
And it came to pass that as He was sitting at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat at the table with Jesus and his disciples.
And when they saw this, the Pharisees said to their disciples: Why does your Master eat with the tax collectors and sinners?
When He heard this, He said: Those who are healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick.
But go, and learn what it means: "MERCY I WANT AND I DO NOT SACRIFICE"; because I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
Then John's disciples * came to him, saying: Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them: Can the groom's companions mourn while the groom is with them? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast.
And no one puts a patch of new fabric on an old dress; because the shrinking patch pulls on the dress and a worse tear occurs.
And nobody puts new wine in old wineskins, because then the wineskins burst, the wine spills and the wineskins are lost; but new wine is poured into new wineskins, and both are preserved.
While I was saying these things to them, behold, a synagogue official came and fell down before Him, saying: My daughter has just died; but come and put your hand on it, and it will live.
And Jesus arose, followed him, and his disciples also.
And behold, a woman who had been suffering from blood flow for twelve years, came up behind her and touched the hem of her cloak;
for he said to himself: If I only touch his cloak, I will heal.
But Jesus, turning and seeing her, said: Daughter, be of good cheer, your faith has healed you. And instantly the woman was healed.
When Jesus entered the officer's house, and saw the flute players and the crowd in noisy disorder,
He said to them: Retire, because the girl is not dead, but is asleep. And they mocked Him.
But when the people had been cast out, he went in and took her by the hand; and the girl got up.
And this news spread throughout that land.
As Jesus left, two blind men followed him, shouting and saying: Son of David, have mercy on us!
And after entering the house, the blind men came to Him, and Jesus said to them *: Do you think I can do this? They answered him *: Yes, Lord.
Then he touched their eyes, saying: Let it be done to you according to your faith.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus rigorously warned them, saying: See that no one knows.
But they, as soon as they left, spread their fame throughout that land.
And when they came out of there, behold, they brought him a mute demoniac.
And after the demon had been cast out, the dumb spoke; And the crowds marveled, and said: Never has such a thing been seen in Israel.
But the Pharisees said: He casts out demons by the prince of demons.
And Jesus went through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease.
And seeing the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were distressed and downcast like sheep without a shepherd.
Then he said to his disciples: The harvest is great, but the workers few.
Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
