Book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham.
Abraham fathered Isaac; Isaac fathered Jacob; Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers;
Judah begot Phares and Zerah from Tamar; Fares begot Hesron; Hesron begot Aram;
Aram fathered Aminadab; Aminadab fathered Nakhson; Nakhson sired Salmon;
Salmon begot Boaz from Rajab; Boaz fathered Obed from Ruth; Obed fathered Jesse;
Jesse begot King David. David fathered Solomon, of whom she was the wife of Uriah;
Solomon fathered Roboam; Rehoboam begot Abijah; Abijah begat Asa;
Asa begot Jehoshaphat; Jehoshaphat begot Joram; Joram fathered Uzziah;
Uzziah fathered Jotham; Jotham begot Ahaz; Ahaz fathered Hezekiah;
Hezekiah fathered Manasseh; Manasseh begot Ammon; Amon begot Josiah;
Josiah fathered Jeconiasa and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconíasa begot Salatiel; Salatiel fathered Zerubbabel;
Zerubbabel fathered Abiud; Abiud fathered Eliaquim; Eliaquim fathered Azor;
Azor begot Sadoc; Sadoc fathered Aquim; Aquim fathered Eliud;
Eliud fathered Eleazar; Eleazar begot Mattan; Mattan fathered Jacob.
Jacob fathered Joseph, husband of Mary, from whom Jesus was born, called the Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon they are fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ they are fourteen generations.
The birth of Jesus Christ was like this: His mother Mary was married to Joseph; and before they were united it was found that she had conceived of the Holy Ghost.
Her husband José, since he was fair and did not want to defame her, proposed to leave her secretly.
While he was thinking about this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in dreams and said: "Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to receive Mary your wife, because what has been generated in her is of the Holy Spirit.
She will give birth to a son; and you will call his name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. "
All this happened to fulfill what the Lord spoke through the prophet, saying:
Behold, the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call his name Immanuel, which translated means: God with us.
When Joseph awoke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him and received his wife.
But he did not know her until she gave birth to a son, and called his name Jesus.