At that time Herod the Tetrarch heard the fame of Jesus,
And he said to his servants: This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers work in him.
Because Herod had seized John, bound him and put him in jail because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife;
because Juan said to him: It is not licit to have it.
And although Herod wanted to kill him, he was afraid of the people, because they considered John as a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday came, Herodias's daughter danced before them and pleased Herod.
So he promised with an oath to give her what she asked for.
She, instigated by her mother, said *: Give me here, on a tray, the head of John the Baptist.
And though the king was saddened, because of his oaths and his guests, he ordered them to be given to him;
and he had John beheaded in prison.
And they brought his head on a tray and gave it to the girl, and she took it to her mother.
John's disciples came and collected the body and buried it; and they went and reported it to Jesus.
Hearing this, Jesus retired from there in a boat, alone, to a deserted place; and when the crowds knew it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
And when he disembarked, he saw a great crowd, and had compassion on them and healed his sick.
At dusk the disciples approached him, saying: The place is deserted and the hour is already advanced; Therefore, send the crowds away to go to the villages and buy food.
But Jesus said to them: There is no need for you to go; feed them.
Then they said to him, "We have here only five loaves and two fishes.
He said to them: Bring them here to me.
And commanding the crowd to lie down on the grass, he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, blessed the food, and breaking the loaves, he gave them to the disciples and the disciples to the crowd.
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they collected what was left of the pieces: twelve full baskets.
And those who ate were about 5,000 men, not counting the women and children.
He immediately made the disciples get into the boat and go before Him to the other shore, while He dismissed the crowd.
After dismissing the crowd, he went up the mountain alone to pray; and at dusk he was there alone.
But the boat was already many stages of land, and was hit by the waves, because the wind was contrary.
And on the fourth watch of the night, Jesus came to them walking on the sea.
And the disciples, seeing him walk on the sea, were troubled, and said: He is a ghost! And in fear, they began to scream.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying: Be of good cheer, it is I; fear not.
Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it is you, send me to come to you on the waters.
And He said: Come. And Peter got down from the boat, walked on the water, and went towards Jesus.
But seeing the force of the wind, he was afraid, and starting to sink he cried out, saying: Lord, save me!
And immediately Jesus, extending his hand, held it up and said to him *: Man of little faith, why did you hesitate?
When they got into the boat, the wind died down.
Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying: Truly you are the Son of God.
After the crossing, they went ashore at Genesaret.
And when the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent to say it all over the surrounding region and they brought him all those who had some evil.
And they begged him to let them touch even the edge of his cloak; and all those who lotus were cured.
