At that time Jesus passed through the fields on the Sabbath; His disciples were hungry, and began to pluck ears and eat.
And when the Pharisees saw him, they said to him, See, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.
But He said to them: Have you not read what David did when he and his companions were hungry,
How did he enter the house of God and eat the consecrated loaves, which were not lawful for him to eat, nor those who were with him, but only the priests?
Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and are without guilt?
Well I tell you that something greater than the temple is here.
But if you had known what this means: "MERCY I WANT AND I DO NOT SACRIFICE", you would not have condemned the innocent.
For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
Passing from there, he entered their synagogue.
And behold, there was a man there who had a dry hand. And in order to accuse him, they asked him, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?
And He said to them, "What man is there among you who has only one sheep? If it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, does he not lay hold of it and take it out?
Well, how much more is a man worth than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.
Then he said to the man: "Stretch out your hand. And he extended it, and it was restored to him, healthy as the other.
But when the Pharisees came out, they conspired against Him, to see how they could destroy Him.
But Jesus, knowing it, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all.
And he warned them not to reveal who He was;
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, when he said:
LOOK, MY SERVANT, WHO HAVE I CHOSEN; MY BELOVED ON WHOM MY SOUL IS PLEASED; OVER IT I WILL PUT MY SPIRIT, AND TO THE NATIONS I WILL PROCLAIM JUSTICE.
IT WILL NOT CONTEND, NOR SHOUT, NOR WILL ANYONE ON THE STREETS HEAR YOUR VOICE.
IT WILL NOT BROKEN THE WATERFALLED CANE, NOR DOES IT STOP THE WICK THAT SMOKE, UNTIL I BRING JUSTICE TO VICTORY.
AND IN HIS NAME THE NATIONS WILL PUT HIS HOPE.
Then they brought him a blind and mute demoniac, and he healed him, so that the mute spoke and saw.
And all the multitudes were amazed, and said: Is not this the Son of David?
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said: This man does not cast out demons but by Beelzebub, the prince of demons.
And Jesus, knowing his thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand up.
And if Satan expels Satan, he is divided against himself; How then can his kingdom stand?
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come to you.
Or how can someone break into a strong man's house and loot his possessions if he doesn't tie him up first? And then he will plunder his house.
Who is not with me, is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
That is why I tell you: all sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
And anyone who says a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come.
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad; because by the fruit the tree is known.
Litter of vipers! How can you speak good things while being bad? Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man of great treasure brings good things; and the bad man from his bad treasure brings out bad things.
And I tell you that every vain word that men speak, they will give account of it on the day of judgment.
Because by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying: Master, we want to see a sign from you.
But He answered and said to them: A wicked and adulterous generation demands a sign, and no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet;
for as JONAS WAS IN THE BELLY OF THE SEA MONSTER THREE DAYS AND THREE NIGHTS, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Nineveh's men will rise up with this generation in judgment and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and look, something bigger than Jonah is here.
The Queen of the South will rise with this generation in judgment and will condemn her, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and look, something bigger than Solomon is here.
When the unclean spirit leaves man, it goes through arid places looking for rest and does not find it.
Then he says: "I will return to my house where I came from"; and when it arrives, it finds it unoccupied, swept and groomed.
He goes then, and takes with him seven other spirits more depraved than he, and entering, they dwell there; and the final state of that man is worse than the first. So it will be with this evil generation as well.
While He was still speaking to the crowd, behold, His mother and brothers were outside, desiring to speak to Him.
And someone said to him: Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside wishing to speak with you.
But He answering the one who told him, said: Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?
And extending his hand towards his disciples, he said: Behold my mother and my brothers!
Because whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, that is my brother and my sister and my mother.
