Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples,
saying: The scribes and the Pharisees have sat in the chair of Moses.
So do and observe whatever they tell you; but do not do according to their works, because they say and do not.
They tie heavy and hard-to-carry loads and put them on men's backs, but they don't want to move them with a finger.
Rather, they do all their works to be seen by men; for they widen their phylacteries and lengthen the fringes of their cloaks;
love the place of honor at banquets and the first seats in synagogues,
and respectful greetings in the squares and to be called by Rabbi men.
But you do not let them call you Rabbi; because one is your Master and you are all brothers.
And call no one your father on earth, for one is your Father, who is in heaven.
Don't let them call you preceptors; because one is your Preceptor, Christ.
But the greatest of you will be your server.
And anyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and anyone who humbles himself will be exalted.
But, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you close the kingdom of heaven before men, because neither you enter nor you allow those who are entering.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you devour the houses of the widows, even though for the pretext you make long prayers; therefore you will receive greater condemnation.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you cross the sea and the land to make a proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him a son of hell twice as much as you.
Woe to you, blind guides, who say: "It is nothing that anyone swears by the temple; but he who swears by the gold of the temple, has an obligation."
Foolish and blind, because what is more important: gold, or the temple that sanctified gold?
You also say: "It is nothing that anyone swears by the altar, but he who swears by the offering that is on him, has obligation."
Blind! Because what is more important: the offering, or the altar that sanctifies the offering?
Therefore, he who swears by the altar, swears by it and by everything that is on it;
He who swears by the temple, swears by it and by the one who dwells in it;
He who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by the one who sits on it.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you pay the tithe of mint, dill and cumin, and you have neglected the most important precepts of the law: justice, mercy and fidelity; and these are the things you should have done, without neglecting those.
Blind guides, who sneak the mosquito and swallow the camel!
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you clean the outside of the glass and the plate, but inside they are full of robbery and debauchery.
Blind Pharisee! Clean the inside of the glass and the plate first, so that the outside is also clean.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you are similar to whitewashed tombs, which on the outside look beautiful, but inside they are full of dead bones and all filth.
So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
and you say: "If we had lived in the days of our parents, we would not have been their accomplices in shedding the blood of the prophets."
So you bear witness against yourselves, that you are the children of those who murdered the prophets.
Fill up, then, the measure of your parents' guilt.
Snakes! Litter of vipers! How will you escape the judgment of hell?
Therefore, behold, I send you prophets, sages, and scribes: of them, some you will kill and crucify, and others you will flog in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city,
so that all the just blood spilled on the earth falls on you, from the blood of the just Abel to the blood of Zacharias, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Truly I tell you that all this will come from this generation.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you didn't want to!
Behold, your house is left to you deserted.
Because I tell you that from now on you will not see me anymore until you say: "BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD."