After Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the time of King Herod, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying:
Where is the born King of the Jews? Because we saw his star in the east and we have come to worship him.
When King Herod heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
Then, gathering all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired from them where the Christ was to be born.
And they said to him: In Bethlehem of Judea, because thus it is written by the prophet:
"And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, you are by no means the smallest among the princes of Judah; for from you will come a Ruler who will shepherd my people Israel."
Then Herod secretly called the magicians and made sure of the time when the star had appeared.
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said: Go and search diligently for the Child; and when you find him, let me know so that I too may come and adore him.
And having heard the king, they went away; and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, until it came and stopped over the place where the Child was.
When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
And entering the house, they saw the Child with his mother Mary, and falling down worshiped him; And opening their treasures they presented him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh.
And having been warned by God in dreams not to return to Herod, they left for their land by another way.
After they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying: Get up, take the Child and his mother and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you to; because Herod is going to look for the Child to kill him.
And he got up, took the Child and his mother at night, and went to Egypt;
and he was there until Herod's death, so that what the Lord spoke through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying: From Egypt I called my Son.
Then Herod, being mocked by the magicians, was very angry, and ordered to kill all the children who were in Bethlehem and in all its environs, from two years old and below, according to the time he had learned from the magicians.
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, when he said:
A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and great lamentation; Raquel who cries for her children, and who did not want to be consoled because they no longer exist.
But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared * in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying:
Get up, take the Child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, because those who attempted against the Child's life have died.
And he got up and took the Child and his mother and came to the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus ruled over Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there; and warned by God in dreams, he left for the region of Galilee;
and he came and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was said through the prophets would be fulfilled: He will be called Nazarene.