When he saw the crowd, he went up the mountain and, as he sat down, his disciples came to him.
And opening his mouth, he taught them saying:
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
"Blessed are those that weep, for they shall receive consolation.
"Blessed are the meek, for they will receive the land for an inheritance.
"Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will be satisfied.
"Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy.
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
"Blessed are those who make peace, for they will be called children of God.
"Blessed are those who are persecuted for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
"Blessed are you when you are reproached and persecuted, and say all kinds of evil against you for my sake, lying.
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven; for thus they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
"You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, with what will it be salted? It is no longer worth anything, but to be thrown out and trampled by men.
"You are the light of the world. A city sitting on a hill cannot be hidden.
Nor is a lamp lit to put it under a drawer, but on the candlestick; and thus it illuminates all those who are in the house.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.
Truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass, not even a jot or a tittle will pass from the law until all has been accomplished.
"Therefore, anyone who breaks the least of these commandments and thus teaches men will be considered the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever obeys and teaches them will be considered great in the kingdom of the heavens.
For I tell you that unless their righteousness is greater than that of the scribes and Pharisees, they will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
"You have heard that it was said to the ancients: You shall not commit murder; and anyone who commits murder will be guilty at trial.
But I tell you, everyone who gets mad at his brother will be guilty at the trial. Anyone who calls his brother a "fool" will be guilty before the Sanhedrin; and anyone who calls him 'fatuo' will be exposed to hellfire.
"Therefore, if you have brought your offering to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
leave your offering there in front of the altar, and go, be reconciled with your brother first, and then come back and offer your offering.
"Quickly reconcile with your adversary while you are with him on the road, lest the adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be thrown into prison.
Truly I tell you, you will never get out of there until you pay the last penny.
"You have heard that it was said: You shall not commit adultery.
But I tell you that everyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Therefore, if your right eye is a chance for you to fall, take it out and throw it out of you. Because it is better for you that one of your limbs is lost and not that your whole body is thrown into hell.
And if your right hand gives you the chance to fall, cut it off and throw it away from you. Because it is better for you that one of your limbs is lost and not that your whole body is thrown into hell.
"It was also said: Anyone who fires his wife, give him a divorce letter.
But I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, causes her to commit adultery. And he who marries the divorced woman commits adultery.
"Furthermore, you have heard that it was said to the ancients: You shall not swear falsely, but you shall fulfill your oaths to the Lord.
But I tell you: Do not swear in any way; nor by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the Great King.
You will not swear even by your head, because you cannot make a hair be neither black nor white.
But be your speaking, 'yes', 'yes', and 'no', 'no'. Because what goes beyond this comes from evil.
"You have heard that it was said to the ancients: An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
But I tell them: Don't resist the bad guy. Rather, for anyone who hits you on the right cheek, turn the other too.
And whoever wants to take you to court and take your robe off, also leave the cloak.
Anyone who forces you to carry a load for a kilometer, go with him two.
To the one who asks you, give; And whoever wants to borrow from you, don't deny it.
"You have heard that it was said: You will love your neighbor and you will hate your enemy.
But I say to you: Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you;
so that they are children of their Father who is in heaven, because he makes his sun rise on the bad and the good, and it rains on the just and unjust.
Because if they love those who love them, what reward will they have? Do not publicans also do the same?
And if they only greet their brothers, what do they do of more? Do not the Gentiles do that?
Be ye therefore perfect, as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.