After the Sabbath day, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the grave.
And behold, there was a great earthquake, because an angel of the Lord descending from heaven, and approaching, he removed the stone and sat on it.
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was white as snow;
and in fear of him the guards trembled and remained as dead.
And the angel speaking, said to the women: Fear not you; because I know that you are looking for Jesus, the one who was crucified.
He is not here, because he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.
And go quickly, and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead; and behold, He goes before you into Galilee; there you will see him. Behold, I have told you.
And they, hurrying away from the grave with fear and great joy, ran to give the news to their disciples.
And behold, Jesus met them, saying: Hail! They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him.
Then Jesus said to them *: Fear not. Go, tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and they will see me there.
And while they were going, behold, some of the guard went to the city and informed the main priests of everything that had happened.
And after meeting with the elders and deliberating with them, they gave a large amount of money to the soldiers,
saying: Say this: "His disciples came at night and stole the body while we slept."
And if this reaches the governor's ears, we will convince him and avoid difficulties.
They took the money and did as instructed. And this saying was widely disseminated among the Jews to this day.
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain that Jesus had pointed out to them.
When they saw him, they adored him; but some doubted.
And Jesus came near and spoke to them, saying: All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost,
teaching them to keep everything that I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, to the end of the world.