When they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, by the Mount of Olives, Jesus then sent two disciples,
saying to them: Go to the village in front of you, and you will immediately find a donkey tied and a colt with it; untie her and bring them to me.
And if someone says something to you, say: "The Lord needs you"; and will send them right away.
This happened so that what was said through the prophet could be fulfilled, when he said:
SAY TO THE DAUGHTER OF SIÓN: "LOOK, YOUR KING COMES TO YOU, HUMBLE AND RIDING ON AN ASS, AND ON A CHICKEN, SON OF CARGO BEAST".
So the disciples went and did just as Jesus had commanded them,
and they brought the donkey and the colt; they put their cloaks on them, and Jesus sat on them.
Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road; others cut tree branches and spread them on the road.
And the crowds that went before Him, and those that followed, shouted, saying: Hosanna to the Son of David! BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD! Hosanna in the high!
When He entered Jerusalem, the whole city shook, and they said: Who is this?
And the crowds answered: This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth in Galilee.
And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold the doves.
And he said to them *: It is written: "MY HOUSE WILL BE CALLED A HOUSE OF PRAYER", but you are making it CAVE OF THIEVES.
And in the temple the blind and the lame came to him, and he healed them.
But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonders he had done, and the boys who were crying out in the temple and saying: Hosanna to the Son of David !, they were outraged
and they said to him: Do you hear what these say? And Jesus answered them *: Yes, have you never read: "FROM THE MOUTH OF LITTLE AND CHILDREN OF CHEST YOU HAVE PREPARED PRAISE"?
And leaving them, he went out of the city, to Bethany, and stayed there.
In the morning, when he returned to the city, he was hungry.
And when he saw a fig tree by the road, he approached it, but found nothing in it but only leaves, and said to him, "Fruit of you will never again sprout. And instantly the fig tree was dried.
Seeing this, the disciples marveled and said: How is it that the fig tree dried up instantly?
Jesus answered and said to them: Truly I say to you that if you have faith and do not hesitate, you will not only do the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain: "Take off and throw yourself into the sea", it will happen.
And whatever you ask for in prayer, believing, you will receive.
When Jesus arrived at the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people approached him as he taught, saying: By what authority do you do these things, and who gave you this authority?
And Jesus answering said to them: I will also ask you a question, that if you answer it, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things.
Where did the baptism of John come from, from heaven or from men? And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say to us: "Then why didn't you believe him?"
And if we say: "Of men", we fear the crowd; because everyone has John as a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said: We do not know. He in turn said to them: Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
But what do you think? A man had two children, and when he came to the first, he said: "Son, go, work today in the vineyard."
And he answered and said: "I don't want"; but later, repentant, it was.
And coming to the other, he said the same thing; but he answered and said: "I will go, sir"; and it wasn't.
Which of the two did the father's will? They said *: The first. Jesus said to them *: Truly I say to you that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you.
Because John came to you in the way of justice and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him; and you, seeing this, did not even regret later to believe him.
Listen to another parable. Once there was a landowner who PLANTED A VINEYARD AND FENCED IT WITH A WALL, AND DUG A WINERY IN IT AND BUILT A TOWER, leased it to some farmers and went on a trip.
And when the harvest time drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers to receive their fruits.
But the farmers, taking the servants, beat one of them, killed another, and stoned another.
Another group of servants sent again, larger than the first; and they did the same to them.
Finally he sent his son to them, saying, "They will respect my son."
But when the farmers saw the son, they said to each other: "This is the heir; come, let us kill him and take possession of his inheritance."
And they seized him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
So when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?
They said to him *: He will bring those wretches to a lamentable end, and he will lease the vineyard to other farmers who pay the fruits in due time.
Jesus said to them *: Did you never read in the Scriptures: "THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BECOME A CORNER STONE; THIS WAS MADE FROM THE LORD, AND IS WONDERFUL TO OUR EYES"?
That is why I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken from you and will be given to a nation that produces its fruits.
And whoever falls on this stone will be broken; but on whom she falls, she will scatter it like dust.
Hearing his parables, the chief priests and Pharisees understood that he spoke of them.
And when they tried to arrest him, they were afraid of the crowd, because they considered him a prophet.