When Jesus finished all these words, he said to his disciples:
You know that in two days Easter is celebrated, and the Son of Man will be delivered to be crucified.
Then the chief priests and the village elders gathered in the courtyard of the high priest named Caiaphas.
And they plotted among themselves to deceive Jesus and kill him.
But they said: Not during the party, so that there is not a riot in the town.
And when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
A woman came up to him with an expensive alabaster bottle of perfume, and poured it over her head when she was sitting at the table.
But when they saw this, the disciples were outraged, and they were saying: Why this waste?
Because this perfume could have been sold at a great price, and the money could have been given to the poor.
But Jesus, realizing it, said to them: Why do you disturb the woman? Well, you have done a good deed with me.
Because you will always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.
Well, when she poured this perfume on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial.
Truly I say to you: Wherever this gospel is preached, throughout the world, it will also speak of what it has done, in memory of him.
So one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,
And he said: What are you willing to give me so that I can deliver it to you? And they weighed thirty pieces of silver.
And since then I was looking for an opportunity to deliver him.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?
And He answered: Go to the city, to a certain man, and tell him: "The Master says:" My time is near; I want to celebrate Easter at your house with my disciples "".
Then the disciples did as Jesus had commanded them, and prepared the Passover.
In the evening He was sitting at the table with the twelve disciples.
And while they were eating, he said: Truly I tell you, one of you will hand me over.
And they, deeply saddened, began to say to him one by one: Am I, Lord?
He answered and said: He who put his hand with me on the plate, he will deliver me.
The Son of Man leaves, as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.
And Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, answered and said: Is it me, Rabbi? And He said to her: You have said it.
While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and having blessed it, he broke it, and giving it to the disciples, he said: Take, eat; this is my body.
And taking a cup, and having given thanks, he gave it to him, saying: Drink all of it;
for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.
And I tell you that from now on I will not drink any more of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, "Tonight you will all turn away for my sake, for it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will scatter.'
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter, answering, said to him, "Even if everyone departs because of you, I will never withdraw.
Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you that this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.
Peter said to him *: Even if I have to die with you, I will never deny you. All the disciples also said the same thing.
Then Jesus * came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said * to his disciples: Sit here while I go there and pray.
And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee with him, he began to be saddened and distressed.
Then he said to them *: My soul is very afflicted, to the point of death; stay here and watch with me.
And coming forward a little, he fell on his face, praying and saying: My father, if possible, let this cup pass from me; but not as I want, but as you want.
So he * came to the disciples and found them * sleeping, and said * to Peter: So you could not watch one hour with me?
Watch and pray that you do not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the meat is weak.
Turning away again, he prayed a second time, saying: My father, if this cannot pass without my drinking it, your will be done.
And he came again and found them sleeping, for his eyes were heavy with sleep.
Leaving them again, he left and prayed a third time, saying the same words again.
Then he * came to the disciples and said to them *: Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up! Let's go! Look, the one who gives me is near.
While He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came accompanied by a large crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; turn him on.
And immediately he came to Jesus and said: Hail, Rabbi! And kissed him.
And Jesus said to him: Friend, do what you came to do. Then they approached, seized Jesus and seized him.
And it came to pass that one of those who were with Jesus, extending his hand, drew his sword, and striking the servant of the high priest, cut off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Or do you think I cannot beg my Father, and He would make more than twelve legions of angels available to me right now?
But how then would the Scriptures that say this must happen be fulfilled?
At that moment Jesus said to the crowd, "How about against a thief did you go out with swords and clubs to arrest me? Every day I used to sit in the temple to teach, and you didn't catch me.
But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets are fulfilled. Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.
And those who arrested Jesus brought him before the high priest Caiaphas, where the scribes and the elders were gathered.
And Peter followed him from a distance to the courtyard of the high priest, and entering, he sat with the bailiffs to see the end of all that.
And the main priests and the whole council tried to obtain false testimony against Jesus, in order to kill him,
and they did not find it despite the fact that many false witnesses appeared. But later two showed up,
They said: He declared: "I can destroy the temple of God and in three days rebuild it."
Then the high priest, rising up, said to him: Do you not answer anything? What do these testify against you?
But Jesus was silent. And the high priest said to him: I adjure you by the living God to tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus said to him *: You yourself have said it; However, I tell you that from now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying: He has blasphemed! What need do we have for more witnesses? Behold, right now you have heard the blasphemy;
what do you think? They answered and said: He is a prisoner of death!
Then they spat on his face and punched him; and others slapped him,
saying: Guess Christ, who is the one who hit you?
Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came up to him and said: You were also with Jesus the Galilean.
But he denied it in front of all of them, saying: I don't know what you're talking about.
When he came out to the portal, another servant girl saw him and said * to those who were there: This one was with Jesus the Nazarene.
And again he denied it with an oath: I don't know that man!
And a little later those who were there came up and said to Pedro: Surely you are also one of them, because even your way of speaking reveals you.
Then he began to curse and swear: I don't know that man! And instantly a rooster crowed.
And Peter remembered what Jesus had said: Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And going out, he wept bitterly.
