"For the kingdom of heaven is like a man, owner of a field, who went out at dawn to hire workers for his vineyard.
Having agreed with the workers on a daily wage, he sent them to his vineyard.
He also left at around nine in the morning and saw that others were unoccupied in the plaza,
And he said to them: "You also go to my vineyard and I will give you whatever is fair." And they went.
He went out again around noon and three in the afternoon, and did the same.
Also around five in the afternoon he went out and found that others were there, and he said to them: "Why are you here unemployed all day?"
They said, "Because no one has hired us." He said to them: "You also go to the vineyard."
"When night came, the lord of the vineyard said to his butler:" Call the workers and pay them the wage. It starts from the last to the first. "
Then came those who had gone about five in the afternoon and each received a salary.
And when the first ones came they thought they would receive more; but they also received the same salary each.
Upon receiving it, they murmured against the owner of the field,
Saying: "The latter worked a single hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the weight and heat of the day."
But he answered and said to one of them: "Friend, I do you no injustice. Did you not agree with me on a salary for the day?
Take what is yours and go. But I want to give the latter like you.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I want with what is mine? Or are you envious because I'm good? "
Thus, the last will be first, and the first last.
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took his twelve disciples apart and said to them on the way:
“Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death.
They will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock, scourge, and crucify him; but on the third day he will rise again.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him with her sons, prostrating himself before him and asking him for something.
He said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Order that in your kingdom these two children of mine sit one on your right and the other on your left.
Then Jesus answered and said: “They do not know what they are asking for. Can you drink the cup that I have to drink? They said to him, "We can."
He said to them, "Indeed, you will drink from my cup; but sitting on my right or on my left is not mine to grant, it is for those whom my Father has prepared.
When the ten heard this, they were angry with the two brothers.
Then Jesus called them and said: —They know that the rulers of the Gentiles rule over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them.
It won't be like that between you. Rather, anyone who longs to be great among you will be your servant;
and he who longs to be first among you will be his servant.
In the same way, the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
As they left Jericho, a large crowd followed him.
And behold, two blind men were sitting by the roadside, and when they heard Jesus pass by, they cried out, saying, "Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!"
The people rebuked them for being silent, but they shouted even louder saying: "Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!"
Jesus stopped, called them, and said, "What do you want me to do to you?"
They said to him, "Sir, let our eyes be opened."
Then Jesus, moved within himself, touched their eyes; and they immediately regained their sight and followed him.