When Jesus left and left the temple, his disciples approached him to show him the temple buildings.
And he answering said to them: —Don't you see all this? Truly I tell you, here there will be no stone on stone that will not be knocked down.
While he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, his disciples approached him separately and said, "Tell us, when will these things happen?" And what sign will there be of your coming and of the end of the world?
Jesus answered and said to them: —Look that nobody deceives you;
because many will come in my name saying: "I am the Christ", and they will deceive many.
They will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Take care that they do not disturb you, because this must happen; but it is not yet the end.
For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. There will be hunger and earthquakes everywhere.
For all these things are the beginning of pain.
"Then they will deliver them up to tribulation and kill them, and they will be hated by all the nations because of my name.
Then many will stumble; and they will betray one another, and they will hate each other.
Many false prophets will rise up and deceive many;
and because evil has multiplied, the love of many will grow cold.
But he who endures to the end will be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the world as a witness to all nations, and then the end will come.
"Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation established in the holy place, of which the prophet Daniel spoke (he who reads, understand),
then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
He who is on the roof does not come down to get something out of his house,
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
Woe to the women who are pregnant and those who nurse in those days!
Pray, then, that their flight will not be in winter or on Saturday;
for then there will be great tribulation as there has not been from the beginning of the world until now, nor will there ever be.
If those days were not shortened, no one would be saved; but because of the elect, those days will be shortened.
"So if someone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ,' or 'He is here,' don't believe him.
For false christs and false prophets will arise, and will do great signs and wonders in such a way that they will deceive, if possible, even the elect.
Look! I have told you beforehand.
So if you say, "Look, it's in the desert," don't go out; or "Look, it's in the interior rooms", don't believe it.
For as the lightning comes from the east and is shown to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Because where the carcass is, there the vultures will gather.
"But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will darken and the moon will not shine. The stars will fall from the sky and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
"Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and at that time all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
He will send his angels with a great trumpet blast, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
"From the fig tree learn the parable: When your branch is already tender and its leaves are sprouting, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass until all these things happen.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
"But about that day and that hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, not even the Son, but only the Father.
For as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark,
and they did not realize until the flood came and took them all, so will also the coming of the Son of Man be.
Back then there will be two in the field; one will be taken, and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding in a mill; one will be taken, and the other left.
Watch therefore, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
But know this: If the homeowner had known what time the thief was to come, he would have kept watch and would not have allowed them to break into his home.
Therefore, be prepared yourselves also, because in the hour that you do not think, the Son of Man will come.
"Who then is the faithful and prudent servant, whom his lord appointed over the servants of his house, to give them food in due time?
Blessed will be that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly I tell you, he will put it on all his possessions.
But if that wicked servant says in his heart: "My lord is late";
and if he starts beating his fellow servants, and if he eats and drinks with the drunkards,
the lord of that servant will come on the day that he does not expect and at the hour that he does not know,
and he will punish him harshly and assign him a place with the hypocrites. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.