Then calling his twelve disciples, Jesus gave them power over the unclean spirits to drive them out and to heal all sickness and disease.
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Felipe and Bartolomé; Tomás and Mateo, the tax collector; James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus;
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, the one who also handed him over.
These twelve Jesus sent after instructing them, saying: Do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans.
Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And when you go, preach saying, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons; of grace you received, give of grace.
Do not provide yourselves with gold, or silver, or copper to carry in your belts,
neither a saddlebag for the road, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor a staff; because the worker is worthy of his support.
And in any city or village where you enter, find out who is worthy in it, and stay there until you leave.
As you enter the house, give him your greeting of peace.
And if the house is worthy, may your greeting of peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, may your greeting of peace return to you.
And whoever does not receive you or hear your words, when you leave that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet.
Truly, I say to you, on the day of judgment, punishment will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that city.
Look, I am sending you like sheep among wolves; therefore be cunning like snakes and innocent like pigeons.
But beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and flog you in their synagogues;
and you will even be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they give you up, don't worry about how or what you will talk about; because at that hour you will be given what you will speak.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking in you.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents, and will kill them.
And you will be hated by all because of my name, but whoever endures to the end will be saved.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee to the other; for truly I say to you, you will not finish touring the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
A disciple is not above the master, nor is a servant above his master.
It is enough for the disciple to become like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If the owner of the house has been called Beelzebú, how much more to those of his house!
So do not fear them, because there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, or hidden that is not to be known.
What I tell you in the dark, speak it in the light; And what you hear in your ear, proclaim it from the rooftops.
And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul; rather fear him who can perish both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a quarter? And yet, not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father allowing it.
And even the hairs on your head are all numbered.
So do not fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.
Therefore everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I came to bring peace to the earth; I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Because I came to PUT MAN AGAINST HIS FATHER, DAUGHTER AGAINST HIS MOTHER, AND DAUGHTER AGAINST HIS MOTHER-IN-LAW;
and THE ENEMIES OF MAN will BE THOSE OF THE SAME HOUSE.
He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
And he who does not take up his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me.
He who has found his life will lose it; and he who has lost his life for my sake will find it.
He who receives you receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet as a prophet will receive a prophet's reward; and he who receives a righteous man as righteous shall receive a righteous man's reward.
And anyone who as a disciple gives even one of these little ones a drink of cold water, in truth I tell you that he will not lose his reward.