Book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham.
Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac Jacob, and Jacob Judah and his brothers;
Judah begot Phares and Zara from Tamar, Fares begot Esrom, and Esrom begot Aram;
Aram begot Aminadab, Aminadab Naasson, and Naason Salmon;
Salmon begot Boaz from Rahab, Boaz begot Obed from Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse;
Jesse begot King David. And David begot Solomon by the woman of Uriah.
Solomon fathered Roboam, Roboam Abijah, and Abijah Asa;
Asa begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat Joram, and Joram Uzziah;
Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham Ahaz, and Ahaz Hezekiah;
Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh Amon, and Amon Josiah;
Josiah fathered Jeconiah and his brothers during the deportation to Babylon.
After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconías fathered to Salatiel, and Salatiel to Zorobabel;
Zerubbabel begot Abiud, Abiud Eliaquim, and Eliaquim Azor;
Azor sired Sadoc, Sadoc Aquim, and Aquim Eliud;
Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar Mattan, and Mattan Jacob;
Jacob fathered Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom Jesus was born, called the Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ, fourteen generations.
And the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. Her mother Mary being married to Joseph, before the marriage was consummated, it was found that she had conceived by the work of the Holy Spirit.
And José her husband, being a just man and not wanting to defame her, wanted to secretly abandon her.
But while he was thinking about this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in dreams, saying: Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to receive Mary your wife, because the Child who has begotten herself is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus, because He will save his people from their sins.
All this happened to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through the prophet, saying:
Behold, the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will name him Emmanuel, which translated means: God with us.
And when Joseph awoke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took his wife with him;
and kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son; and he named him Jesus.