Six days later, Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother with him, and led them up a high mountain by themselves.
And he was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his garments became white as light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them talking to him.
Then Peter intervened and said to Jesus: "Lord, it is good that we are here." If you want, I will raise three branches here: one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
While he was still speaking, suddenly a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice came out of the cloud saying: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him."
Hearing this, the disciples fell on his face and feared greatly.
Then Jesus approached, touched them and said to them: "Get up and do not fear.
And when they looked up they saw no one but Jesus Himself, alone.
As they were descending the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, "Do not mention the vision to anyone, until the Son of Man rises from the dead.
Then the disciples asked him saying: —Why do the scribes say that it is necessary for Elijah to come first?
And answering he said: —In truth, Elijah comes and will restore all things.
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him; rather, they did with him whatever they wanted. So also the Son of Man must suffer from them.
Then the disciples understood that he was talking to them about John the Baptist.
When they reached the crowd, a man came to him and knelt down before him,
saying: —Lord, have mercy on my son, who is a lunatic and suffers seriously! Well, many times it falls in the fire, and many times in the water.
I brought it to your disciples, and they couldn't heal it.
Jesus answered and said: "O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear them? Bring it here!
Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him; and the child was healed from that hour.
Then the disciples approached Jesus privately and said, "Why couldn't we cast him out?"
Jesus said to them, "Because of your little faith. Because truly I tell you that if you have faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this mountain: "Go from here to there"; and it will pass. Nothing will be impossible for them.
But this kind of devil comes out only with prayer and fasting;
While they were gathered in Galilee, Jesus said to them: "The Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men,
and they will kill him. But on the third day he will rise again. "And they were very sad.
When they got to Capernaum, they went to Peter who collected the temple tax and said, "Does your teacher not pay the temple tax?"
He said, "Yes." Upon entering the house, Jesus spoke to him first saying: "What do you think, Simon?" The kings of the earth, from whom do they collect tribute or taxes? From your children or from others?
Pedro said to him: "From others." Jesus said to him, "Then the children are free from obligation."
But, lest we offend them, go to the sea, take the hook, and take the first fish that comes up. When you open his mouth, you will find a coin. Take it and give it to them for me and for you.