Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil.
And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.
The tempter approached and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, say that these stones become bread.
But he answered and said: —It is written: Man will not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.
Then the devil took him to the holy city, stood him on the pinnacle of the temple,
And he said to him, "If you are the Son of God, lie down, for it is written: He will command his angels about you, and they will carry you in his hands, so that you never stumble over your foot on stone."
Jesus said to him, "Furthermore, it is written, You shall not test the Lord your God.
Again the devil took him to a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
And he said to him, "All this I will give you, if you worship me prostrate."
Then Jesus said to him, "Go, Satan, for it is written: You shall worship the Lord your God and him only you shall serve.
Then the devil left him and, behold, the angels came and served him.
And when Jesus heard that John had been imprisoned, he returned to Galilee.
And having left Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum, a city by the sea in the region of Zabulon and Naphtali,
so that what was said through the prophet Isaiah could be fulfilled, saying:
The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, on the way to the sea, across the Jordan, the Galilee of the Gentiles.
The people who dwelt in darkness saw a great light. For those who lived in the region and shadow of death, the light dawned.
Since then Jesus began to preach and say: "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!" Jesus calls the first disciples
While walking by the Sea of ​​Galilee, Jesus saw two brothers: Simon, who is called Peter, and his brother Andrew. They were casting the net in the sea, because they were fishermen.
And he said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men."
And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
And passing further, he saw two other brothers, Jacobo son of Zebedeo and Juan his brother, in the boat with his father Zebedeo, fixing their nets. I call them,
and immediately they left the boat and their father, and followed him.
Jesus traveled all over Galilee teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease in the people.
His fame spread throughout Syria, and brought to him all who had ills: those who suffered from various diseases and pains, the possessed, the lunatics, and the paralytics. And he healed them.
Large crowds followed him from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and across the Jordan.