Then some scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem came to Jesus, saying:
Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? Well, they don't wash their hands when they eat bread.
And He answered and said to them: Why do you also break God's command because of your tradition?
Because God said: "HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER", and: "WHOever SPEAKS EVIL OF THEIR FATHER OR THEIR MOTHER, DIE."
But you say: "Anyone who says to his father or his mother:" All that you could be helped is an offering to God, "
he will no longer need to honor his father or mother. "And so you invalidated the word of God because of your tradition.
You hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied well of you when he said:
"THIS PEOPLE WITH LIPS HONORS ME, BUT THEIR HEART IS VERY FAR FROM ME.
MORE IN VAIN THEY WORSHIP ME, TEACHING LIKE DOCTRINE PRECEPTS OF MEN. "
And calling the crowd together, he said to them: Hear and understand:
it is not what enters the mouth that contaminates man; but what comes out of the mouth, that is what contaminates man.
Then the disciples came to him and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were scandalized when they heard your words?
But He answered and said: Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted.
Leave them; they are blind guides of the blind. And if a blind man guides another blind man, they will both fall into the hole.
Peter answered and said to him: Explain to us the parable.
And He said: Are you also still lacking in understanding?
Don't you understand that everything that enters the mouth goes to the stomach and then is eliminated?
But what comes out of the mouth comes from the heart, and that is what contaminates man.
Because from the heart come bad thoughts, homicides, adulteries, fornications, robberies, false testimonies and slander.
These things are what pollute man; but eating without washing your hands does not contaminate man.
When Jesus left there, he withdrew to the region of Tire and Sidon.
And behold, a Canaanite woman who had left that region began to cry out, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is terribly demonized.
But He did not answer her a word. And his disciples came to him and begged him, saying, "Pay attention to her, for she is crying after us."
And He answered and said, I have not been sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But as she approached, she fell down before Him, saying: Lord, help me!
And He answered and said: It is not right to take the children's bread, and throw it to the dogs.
But she said: Yes, Lord; but also the dogs eat from the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus answering said to her: O woman, great is your faith; let it happen to you as you wish. And her daughter was healthy from that moment.
And as Jesus passed from there, he came by the Sea of ​​Galilee, and going up the mountain, he sat there.
And great multitudes came to Him, bringing with them the lame, the crippled, the blind, the dumb, and many other sick people, and put them at His feet, and He healed them;
so that the crowd marveled when they saw that the dumb spoke, the crippled were restored, the lame walked and the blind saw; and they glorified the God of Israel.
Then Jesus, calling his disciples together, said to them: I have compassion for the crowd, because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat; and I don't want to fire them without eating, lest they faint along the way.
And the disciples * said to him: Where in the desert would we get so many loaves to satisfy such a large crowd?
Jesus then said to them *: How many loaves do you have? And they answered: Seven, and a few little fishes.
And He commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground;
and took the seven loaves and the fishes; and after giving thanks, he broke them and began to give them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
And they all ate and were satisfied; and they collected from what was left of the pieces, seven full baskets.
Four thousand men ate, not counting women and children.
And after dismissing the crowd, he got into the boat and went to the Magadan region.