Because the kingdom of heaven is similar to a man, father of a family, who went out in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard.
And having agreed with the workers on a denarius a day, he sent them to his vineyard.
And leaving around the third hour, he saw others who were in the plaza unoccupied
And he said to them, "Go also to my vineyard, and I will give you whatever is right." And they went.
He went out again around the sixth and ninth hours, and did the same.
And leaving about the eleventh hour, he found others who were out of work and said to them: Why are you here unemployed all day?
They said to him: Because nobody has hired us. He said to them, "You also go into the vineyard and you will receive what is just.
And in the evening, the lord of the vineyard said to his steward: Call the workers and pay them the wage, starting from the last to the first.
And when those who had come near the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius.
And when the first ones also came, they thought they would receive more, but they also each received a denarius.
And taking it, they murmured against the father of the family,
Saying: These last ones have worked a single hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have carried the burden and heat of the day.
And he, answering, said to one of them: Friend, I do you no wrong; Did you not agree with me on a denarius?
Take what is yours and go; but I want to give this last one like you.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I want with what is mine? Or, is your eye bad, because I am good?
Thus, the first will be last and the last will be first; because many are called, but few are chosen.
And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took his twelve disciples apart on the way and said to them:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death;
And they will deliver him up to the Gentiles to mock him, to scourge and crucify him; but on the third day he will rise again.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him with her sons, prostrating himself before him and asking him for something.
And he said to him: What do you want? She said to him: Order these two sons of mine to sit, one on your right and the other on your left, in your kingdom.
Then Jesus answered and said: You do not know what you are asking: Can you drink from the cup that I am to drink and be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to him: We can.
And he said to them: In truth you will drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized; but sitting on my right and on my left is not mine to give, but to those for whom it is prepared by my Father.
And when the ten heard this, they were angry with the two brothers.
Then Jesus, calling them, said: You know that the rulers of the Gentiles rule over them, and those who are great exercise power over them.
But it will not be so among you, but he who wants to become great among you will be your servant;
and whoever wants to be first among you will be your servant,
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Then, as they left Jericho, a large crowd followed him.
And behold, two blind men were sitting by the roadside, and when they heard Jesus pass by, they cried out, saying, Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!
And the people rebuked them for being silent, but they cried out more, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!
And Jesus stopped and called them and said: What do you want me to do for you?
They said to him: Lord, that our eyes be opened.
Then Jesus, having mercy on them, touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight; and they followed him.