At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the fame of Jesus
and said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist! He has risen from the dead; for this reason these powers operate in him."
Because Herod had seized John, bound him with chains, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodia, his brother Philip's wife.
Because Juan said to him: "It is not lawful for you to have her as a woman."
And although Herod wanted to kill him, he feared the people; because they considered him a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, Herodias daughter danced in the middle and pleased Herod,
therefore he promised under oath to give her what she asked for.
She, instigated by her mother, said: "Give me here the head of John the Baptist."
Then the king was sad; but because of the oath and those who were with him at the table, he ordered that it be given to him.
He had Juan beheaded in prison.
And his head was brought on a plate and given to the girl, and she presented it to her mother.
Then his disciples came, took the body and buried it. Then they went and told Jesus.
Hearing this, Jesus departed from there in a boat to a deserted and isolated place. When the crowds heard this, they followed him on foot from the cities.
When Jesus came out, he saw the great crowd and had compassion on them, and healed those who were sick among them.
At dusk, his disciples approached him and said: —The place is desert, and the hour is late. Fire people to go to the villages and buy themselves something to eat.
But Jesus said to them, "You have no need to go. Give them something to eat.
Then they said, "We have here but five loaves and two fish.
He said to them, "Bring them here to me."
Then he ordered the people to lie down on the grass. He took the five loaves and the two fish and, looking up to heaven, blessed them. After breaking them, he gave the loaves to his disciples, and they to the people.
They all ate and were filled, and twelve baskets full of what was left of the pieces were collected.
Those who ate were about 5,000 men, not counting women and children.
And immediately Jesus compelled his disciples to enter the boat and go before him to the other shore, while he dismissed the crowds.
Once the people were dismissed, he went up the mountain to pray alone; and when night came, he was there alone.
The boat was already a long distance from the land, lashed by the waves, because the wind was contrary.
And at dawn, Jesus went to them walking on the sea.
But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were disturbed saying: —A ghost! And they screamed in fear.
Jesus immediately spoke to them saying: "Be of good cheer! I am! Have no fear!
Then Peter answered him and said, "Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the waters."
And he said, "Come on." Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water, and went towards Jesus.
But seeing the strong wind, he was afraid and began to sink. Then he shouted saying, "Lord, save me!"
Immediately Jesus put out his hand, held it and said: "O man of little faith! Why did you hesitate?
When they got into the boat, the wind died down.
Then those in the boat worshiped him saying, "You are truly the Son of God!"
When they crossed to the other shore, they reached the land of Genesaret.
And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent to say it throughout that region, and they brought to him all who were sick.
And they begged him that they could only touch the edge of his cloak, and all who touched him were healed.