And the Pharisees and Sadducees came to tempt him, and asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
But he, answering, said to them: When evening falls, you say: It will be good weather, because the sky has trees.
And in the morning: Today there will be a storm, because the sky is shady and it is cloudy. You hypocrites! You know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but can't you tell the signs of the times?
The evil and adulterous generation looks for a sign, but a sign will not be given, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. And leaving them, he left.
And his disciples came to the other side, but they had forgotten to bring bread.
And Jesus said to them, Look, and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they thought within themselves, saying: This says because we did not bring bread.
And Jesus, understanding it, said to them: Why do you think within yourselves, you men of little faith, that you have no bread?
Do you not yet understand, nor do you remember the five loaves among five thousand men, and how many baskets did you collect?
Not of the seven loaves among four thousand, and how many baskets did you collect?
How can you not understand that it was not for the bread that I told you to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?
Then they understood that he had not told them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And when Jesus arrived in the Caesarea region of Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying: Who do men say the Son of Man is?
And they said: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; and others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said to them: And you, who do you say that I am?
Simon Peter answered and said: You are the Christ, the Son of the living God!
Then Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
But I also tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
And I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven, and everything you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And whatever you loose on earth will be loose in heaven.
Then he commanded his disciples to tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ.
Since then Jesus began to declare to his disciples that he had to go to Jerusalem and suffer greatly at the hands of the elders, and of the chief priests and scribes; and be dead, and rise on the third day.
And Peter, taking him aside, began to rebuke him, saying: Lord, have compassion for yourself. In no way will this happen to you!
Then he turned and said to Peter: Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, because you do not understand what is of God, but what is of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.
For everyone who wants to save his life will lose it, and everyone who loses his life for my sake will find it.
For what will a man profit if the whole world wins and loses his soul? Or, what reward will man give for his soul?
For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will pay each one according to his works.
Truly I say to you: There are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they have seen the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.