And after the Sabbath day, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the grave.
And behold, there was a great earthquake, because an angel of the Lord, coming down from heaven and approaching the grave, removed the stone and sat on it.
And her appearance was like lightning, and her dress was white as snow.
And in fear of him the guards trembled and remained as dead.
And the angel answered and said to the women: Do not be afraid, because I know that you are looking for Jesus, the one who was crucified.
He is not here, because he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord was placed.
Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead; and behold, he goes before you into Galilee; there you will see him. Behold, I have told you.
Then they, leaving the grave with fear and great joy, ran to give the news to their disciples. And while they were going to give the news to the disciples,
behold, Jesus met them, saying, Hail! And they came up and hugged his feet and worshiped him.
Then Jesus said to them: Fear not; Go tell my brothers that they may go to Galilee, and they will see me there.
And while they were going, behold, some of the guard went to the city and informed the chief priests of all the things that had happened.
And meeting with the elders, and having deliberated, they gave the soldiers a lot of money,
Saying, Say, His disciples came at night and stole it while we slept.
And if this reaches the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make you safe.
And they, taking the money, did as they had been instructed; and this saying has been spread among the Jews to this day.
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had commanded them.
And when they saw him, they adored him; but some doubted.
And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying: All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth.
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;
teaching them to keep all the things that I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, to the end of the world. Amen.