Then the Pharisees and Sadducees approached Jesus, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
But He answered and said to them: In the evening you say: "It will be good weather, because the sky is reddish."
And in the morning: "Today there will be a storm, because the sky is reddish and threatening." Can you discern the appearance of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of the times?
A wicked and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and it will not be given a sign, but the sign of Jonah. And leaving them, he left.
The disciples, when passing to the other side, had forgotten to take bread.
And Jesus said to them, Be vigilant and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they argued among themselves, saying: He says it because we don't eat bread.
But Jesus, realizing it, said: Men of little faith, why do you argue among yourselves that you have no bread?
Do you still not understand or remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets did you collect?
Not even the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets did you collect?
How come you don't understand that I didn't tell you about the loaves? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Then they understood that he had not told them to beware of the leaven of the loaves, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
When Jesus arrived in the Caesarea region of Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying: Who do men say the Son of Man is?
And they said: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; but others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said to them *: And you, who do you say that I am?
Simon Peter answered and said: You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus answering said to him, Blessed are you, Simon, the son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
I also tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church; and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven; And what you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And what you loose on earth will be released in heaven.
He then commanded the disciples to tell no one that He was the Christ.
Since then, Jesus Christ began to declare to his disciples that he should go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and be resurrected on the third day.
And taking him aside, Peter began to rebuke him, saying: God forbid, Lord! That will never happen to you.
But turning around, he said to Peter: Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me; because you are not thinking of the things of God, but of those of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
For what profit will a man gain if he gains the whole world, but loses his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of Man is to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, AND THEN HE WILL REWARD EACH ONE ACCORDING TO HIS CONDUCT.
Truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.