Jesus answered and spoke to them again in parables saying:
"The kingdom of heaven is like a king who held the wedding feast for his son."
He sent his servants to call those who had been invited to the wedding, but did not want to come.
He sent back other servants, saying, "Say to the guests, 'Behold, I have prepared my food; my fattened bulls and animals have been slain, and all is ready. Come to the wedding.'
But they ignored him and went, one to his field, another to his business;
and the others took their servants, insulted them, and killed them.
The king was angry, and by sending his troops he killed those assassins and set his city on fire.
Then he said to his servants, "The banquet is indeed ready, but the guests were not worthy.
So go to the crossroads of the roads and call everyone you find to the wedding banquet. "
Those servants went out on the roads and gathered all they found, both good and bad; and the wedding banquet was full of guests.
"But when the king came in to see the guests and saw a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes,
He said, "Dude, how did you get in here without wearing wedding clothes?" But he was speechless.
Then the king said to the servants, "Tie his feet and hands, and cast him into the outer darkness." There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth;
because many are called, but few are chosen.
So the Pharisees left and asked how they could confuse him in a word.
Then they sent disciples of theirs, together with the Herodians, saying: —Master, we know that you are a real man, that you teach the way of God with truth and that you don't take care of anyone; because you don't look at the appearance of men.
Tell us, then, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar or not?
But Jesus, understanding their malice, said to them: "Why are you testing me, hypocrites?"
Show me the currency of the tribute. They presented him with a coin.
Then he said to them: "Whose is this image and this inscription?"
They said to him, "From Caesar." Then he said to them, "Therefore give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's."
Hearing this, they marveled; and leaving him, they went away.
That day some Sadducees approached him, who say that there is no resurrection, and asked him saying:
—Master, Moses said: If anyone dies without children, his brother will marry his wife and raise offspring for his brother.
So there were seven brothers among us. The first took a wife and died, and since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother.
In the same way it also happened with the second and the third, up to seven.
After everyone died, the woman died, too.
In the resurrection, since they all had it, which one of the seven will be a woman?
Then Jesus answered and said to them: —They are wrong because they do not know the Scriptures, nor the power of God;
because in the resurrection they do not marry nor do they give in marriage but they are like the angels that are in heaven.
And about the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was told by God?
I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
Hearing this, the crowds were stunned at his doctrine.
Then the Pharisees, hearing that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered together.
One of them, an interpreter of the law, asked to prove him:
"Master, what is the great commandment of the law?"
Jesus said to him, "You will love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.
This is the great and the first commandment.
And the second is similar to it: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.
The Pharisees having gathered, Jesus asked them
saying, "What do you think about the Christ?" Who's his father? They said to him, "From David."
He said to them, "Then how is it that David, through the Spirit, calls him 'Lord'?" Well it says:
The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet."
Well, if David calls him "Lord", what is his son like?
No one could answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him more.