And it came to pass that, when Jesus finished giving commandments to his twelve disciples, he went from there to teach and preach in their cities.
And when John heard in prison the deeds of Christ, he sent him two of his disciples
to ask him: Are you the one who was to come, or will we wait for someone else?
And Jesus answering said to them, Go and make known to John the things that you hear and see.
The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear; the dead are raised and the gospel is announced to the poor.
And blessed is he who finds no stumbling block in me.
As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
Or what did you go out to see? A man covered in delicate dresses? Behold, those who wear delicate dresses are in the houses of the kings.
But what did you go out to see? To a prophet? I also tell you, and more than a prophet.
For this is the one of whom it is written: Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.
Truly I say to you that among those born of women there has risen no one greater than John the Baptist; but the smallest in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent take it by force.
Because all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if you want to receive him, he is that Elijah who was to come.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
But what will I compare this generation to? It is similar to the boys who sit in the squares and cry out to their peers
and they say: We played the flute for you, and you didn't dance; We sang you mourning songs, and you did not regret it.
Because John came, he did not eat or drink, and they say: He has a demon.
The Son of Man came, who eats and drinks, and they say: Behold a gluttonous man and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners. But the wisdom is justified by your children.
Then he began to rebuke the cities in which he had performed many of his miracles, because they had not repented, saying:
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Betsaida! For if the miracles that have been done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have long ago repented in sackcloth and ashes.
Therefore I say to you that on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, who are lifted up to heaven, to Hades you will be struck down, because if the wonders that had been done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained to this day.
Therefore I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment for the land of Sodom will be more tolerable than for you.
At that time, Jesus answered and said: I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the knowledgeable, and have revealed them to children.
Yes, Father, because that is how you liked it.
All things are delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father; nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wants to reveal it.
Come to me, all of you who are worked and loaded, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
For my yoke it is easy, and my burden light.