It happened that, when Jesus finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he went from there to teach and preach in their cities.
Now when John heard in prison of the deeds of Christ, he sent him through his disciples,
And he said to him, "Are you the one who is to come, or shall we wait for someone else?"
And Jesus answering said to them: —Go and make known to John the things you hear and see:
The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are made clean, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the gospel is preached to the poor.
Blessed is he who takes no offense at me.
As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak of John to the crowds: "What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
So what did you go out to see? A man dressed in delicate clothing? Behold, those who dress in delicate clothing are in the palaces of kings.
So what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet!
This is the one of whom it is written: Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.
Truly I say to you that no one greater than John the Baptist has risen from those born of women. However, the smallest in the kingdom of heaven is greater than him.
From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent take over.
Because all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John.
And if they want to receive him, he is the Elijah who should come.
He who has ears, let him hear.
"But what will I compare this generation to? It is similar to the boys who sit in the squares and cry out to their companions,
saying: 'We played the flute for them, and they didn't dance; we sang mourning songs and they didn't regret it. '
Because Juan came, he didn't eat or drink, and they say: 'He has a devil!'
And the Son of Man came, who eats and drinks, and they say: 'Behold a gluttonous man and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners!' But wisdom is justified by its deeds. "
Then he began to rebuke the cities in which many of his mighty deeds were performed, because they had not repented:
"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty deeds that had been done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have long ago repented in sackcloth and ashes.
But I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment for Tire and Sidon will be more tolerable than for you.
"And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? Until Hades you will be sunk! For if the mighty deeds that were done in you had been carried out among those of Sodom, they would have remained until today.
But I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom than for you. "
At that time Jesus answered and said: "I praise you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and have revealed them to children.
Yes, Father, because that's how you liked it. "
"All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows the Son well, but the Father. No one knows the Father well, except the Son and the one to whom the Son wants to reveal him.
"Come to me, all who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me that I am meek and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your soul.
For my yoke it is easy, and my burden light".