Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who, taking their lamps, went out to receive the bridegroom.
And five of them were prudent and five foolish.
The foolish, taking their lamps, did not take oil with them;
but the prudent took oil in their vessels, along with their lamps.
And taking her boyfriend, they all nodded and fell asleep.
And at midnight a cry was heard: Behold, the bridegroom is coming; Come out to meet him.
So all those virgins got up and fixed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the prudent: Give us your oil, because our lamps go out.
But the prudent responded, saying: So that we and you are not lacking, go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves.
And while they were going to buy, the groom came; and those who were prepared entered with him to the weddings; and the door was closed.
And then the other virgins also came, saying: Lord, Lord, open to us!
But he answered and said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you.
Watch therefore, for you do not know the day or the hour in which the Son of Man is to come.
For the kingdom of heaven is like a man who, departing far away, called his servants and entrusted their goods to them.
And to one he gave five talents, and to the other two, and to the other one, each according to his ability; and then he went away.
And he who had received five talents went and traded with them, and gained five other talents.
Likewise, the one who had received two also won two others.
But he who had received one went and dug in the ground, and hid his master's money.
And after a long time, the lord of those servants returned and made accounts with them.
And he who had received five talents came, and brought five other talents, saying, Lord, you gave me five talents; behold, I have gained five other talents over them.
And his lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant; You have been faithful over a few things, I will put you over many things; enter into the joy of your lord.
And he who had received two talents also came and said, Lord, you have entrusted me with two talents; behold, I have gained two other talents upon them.
His lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant; You have been faithful over a few things, I will put you over many things; enter into the joy of your lord.
And the one who had received a talent also came and said: Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, that you reap where you did not sow and gather where you did not scatter;
and I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground; here is what is yours.
And his lord answering said to him, Evil and negligent servant, did you know that I mow where I did not sow and that I gather where I did not scatter;
therefore, you should have given my money to the bankers and, when I came, I would have received what is mine with interest.
So take the talent from him and give it to the one who has ten talents.
For to the one who has, it will be given and he will have more; and whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
And cast the useless servant into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
And when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
And all the nations will be gathered before him; then he will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And he will put the sheep on his right, and the goats on the left.
Then the King will say to those on his right: Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Because I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and you picked me up;
I was naked, and you covered me; sick, and you visited me; I was in jail, and you came to me.
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and sustain you? Or thirsty and gave you drink?
And when did we see you a stranger and pick you up? Or naked and cover you?
Or when we saw you sick or in prison, and went to see you?
And the King answering, will say to them: Truly I tell you that as soon as you did it to one of these, my younger brothers, you did it to me.
Then he will also say to those on the left: Depart from me, you cursed ones, to the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Because I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and you did not give me a drink;
I was a stranger, and you did not pick me up; I was naked, and you did not cover me; sick and in jail, and you didn't visit me.
Then they too will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick or in prison, and we did not serve you?
Then he will answer them, saying: Truly I say to you that inasmuch as you did not do it to one of these least ones, you did not do it to me either.
And these will go to eternal torment, and the righteous to eternal life.