In those days * John the Baptist came preaching in the Judean desert, saying:
Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Because this is the one to whom the prophet Isaiah referred, saying: Voice of the one crying out in the desert: "Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
And he, Juan, had a camel hair dress and a leather belt around his waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan came to him;
and confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
But when he saw that many of the Pharisees and Sadducees were coming for baptism, he said to them: Litter of vipers! Who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance;
and do not presume that you can say to yourselves: "We have Abraham for father", because I tell you that God can raise children to Abraham from these stones.
And the ax is already at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
I indeed baptize you with water for repentance, but he who comes after me is more powerful than I, who I am not worthy to take off his sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
The pitchfork is in his hand and will completely clean his era; and it will gather its wheat in the barn, but it will burn the straw in inextinguishable fire.
Then Jesus came * from Galilee to the Jordan, where John was, to be baptized by him.
But John tried to stop him, saying: I need to be baptized by you, and you come to me?
And Jesus answering said to him, Allow it now; because it is convenient for us to fulfill all justice in this way. So Juan allowed it *.
After being baptized, Jesus immediately came out of the water; and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming upon him.
And behold, a voice was heard from heaven saying: This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.