At that time the disciples approached Jesus saying: —Who is the most important in the kingdom of heaven?
Jesus called a boy, put him in their midst
And he said, "Truly, I say to you, if you do not turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
So, anyone who humbles himself like this child, that is the most important in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me.
"And to anyone who causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better if a large millstone were tied around his neck and he sank in the depths of the sea.
Woe unto the world because of offenses! There are inevitable stumbles, but woe to the man who causes them!
"Therefore, if your hand or foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and kick it out of you. It is better for you to enter life lame or one-armed, than having two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire.
And if your eye makes you stumble, take it out and kick it out of you. It is better for you to enter life with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into the hell of fire.
"Look, don't look down on any of these little ones, because I tell you that your angels in heaven always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Because the Son of Man has come to save what was lost.
"What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one strays, will he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains and go find the wayward?
And if it happens that you find it, I certainly tell you that you enjoy it more than the ninety-nine that did not go astray.
So it is not the will of your Father in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
"Therefore, if your brother sins against you, go, admonish him alone between you and him. If he listens to you, you have won your brother.
But if you don't listen, take one or two with you, so that all matters are recorded according to the mouth of two or three witnesses.
And if he doesn't listen to them, tell the church; And if you don't listen to the church, consider it Gentile and tax collector.
Truly I tell you, whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever you untie on earth will have been loosed in heaven.
"Again I tell you that if two of you agree on earth about anything you ask for, it will be done for you by my Father in heaven.
Because where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am in their midst.
Then Peter came up to him and said, "Lord, how many times will my brother sin against me and I will forgive him?" Up to seven times?
Jesus said to him, "I don't tell you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven."
"For this reason, the kingdom of heaven is similar to a man who was a king, who wanted to do accounts with his servants.
And when he started making accounts, he was brought one that owed him a lot of money.
Since he could not pay, his lord ordered him to be sold, along with his wife, children and everything he had, and to be paid.
Then the servant fell and fell down before him saying: "Be patient with me, and I will pay you everything."
The lord of that servant, moved with compassion, released him and forgave the debt.
"But when he came out, that servant found one of his servants who owed him little money, and holding on to him, he drowned him saying:" Pay what you owe. "
Then his fellow servant, falling, begged him saying: "Be patient with me, and I will pay you!".
But he did not want to, but went and threw him in jail until he paid what he owed him.
"So when his servants saw what had happened, they were very sad; and they went and declared to their lord everything that had happened.
Then his lord called him and said: "Evil servant! All that debt I forgave you because you begged me.
Should you not also have mercy on your fellow servant, just as I also had mercy on you? "
And his lord, angrily, handed him over to the executioners until he paid him everything he owed him.
So also will my heavenly Father do to you if each of you does not forgive his brother.