After Saturday, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the grave.
And behold, there was a great earthquake; For the angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and when he arrived he removed the stone and sat on it.
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was white as snow.
The guards trembled in fear of him and were left dead.
And the angel answered and said to the women: "Do not fear, because I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified.
He is not here, because he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where it was placed.
Go quickly and tell your disciples that he has risen from the dead. Behold, he goes before you into Galilee. There they will see it. Here I have told you.
Then they hurried out of the grave with fear and great joy, and ran to give the news to their disciples.
And behold, Jesus met them, saying, "I greet you!" And approaching them, they embraced his feet and adored him.
Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid. Go, give the news to my brothers, so they can go to Galilee. There they will see me.
While they were going, behold, some of the guard went to the city and informed the chief priests of all that had happened.
They met in council with the elders, and taking a lot of money they gave it to the soldiers.
saying, "Say, 'His disciples came at night and stole it while we slept.'
And if this reaches the prosecutor's ears, we will persuade him and avoid problems. "
They took the money and did as they were instructed. And this saying has been spread among the Jews to this day.
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them.
When they saw it, they adored it; but some doubted.
Jesus approached them and spoke to them saying: "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,
and teaching them to keep all the things that I have commanded them. And behold, I am with you every day, until the end of the world. "