And it came to pass that, when Jesus had finished all these words, he said to his disciples:
You know that in two days Easter is celebrated, and the Son of Man will be delivered to be crucified.
Then the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people gathered in the courtyard of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas;
and they conspired to deceive Jesus and kill him.
But they said: Not during the party, so that there is no fuss in the town.
And while Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
A woman came to him with an alabaster glass of highly priced perfume, and poured it on his head, sitting at the table.
Seeing this, his disciples were angry and said: Why this waste?
Because this perfume could have been sold for a great price and given to the poor.
And when Jesus understood it, he said to them: Why are you bothering this woman? Well, he has done a good deed with me.
Because you will always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.
Because by pouring this perfume on my body, it has done so to prepare me for burial.
Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached, throughout the world, what it has done will also be told, in memory of it.
Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
And he said to them: What do you want to give me, and I will give it to you? And they weighed thirty pieces of silver.
And since then I was looking for an opportunity to deliver him.
And on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?
And he said: Go to the city, to a certain man, and tell him: The Master says: My time is near; In your house I will celebrate Easter with my disciples.
And the disciples did as Jesus commanded them and prepared the Passover.
And at dusk, he sat at the table with the twelve.
And while they were eating, he said: Truly I tell you, one of you is going to deliver me.
And greatly saddened, each one of them began to say to him: Is it me, Lord?
Then he, answering, said: The one who puts his hand with me on the plate, that one is going to deliver me.
In truth the Son of Man goes, as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! Good were it for that man had not been born.
Then Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, answered and said: Is it me, Master? And he said to him: You have said it.
And while they were eating, Jesus took the bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to his disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body.
And taking the cup, and having given thanks, he gave it to them, saying: Drink of it all;
for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.
And I tell you that from now on I will not drink any more of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
And when they had sung the hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them: All of you will be scandalized by me tonight; for it is written, I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
And Peter answering said to him: Although everyone is scandalized about you, I will never be scandalized.
Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you that tonight, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.
Peter said to him: Although I must die with you, I will not deny you. And all the disciples said the same.
Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to his disciples: Sit here while I go there and pray.
And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee with him, he began to be very sad and distressed.
Then Jesus said to them: My soul is very sad, until death; stay here and watch with me.
And going a little further, he fell on his face, praying and saying: My father, if possible, pass this cup from me; but not as I want, but as you.
And he came to his disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter: So you have not been able to watch one hour with me?
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Again he went and prayed a second time, saying: My Father, if this cup cannot pass from me without my drinking it, your will be done.
And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy with sleep.
And leaving them, he went away again and prayed a third time, saying the same words.
Then he came to his disciples and said to them: Sleep now, and rest. Behold, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up, come on! Behold, he who has delivered me has arrived.
While he was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, arrived, and with him many people with swords and sticks, from the chief priests and the village elders.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; turn him on.
And immediately he came to Jesus and said: Hail, Master. And kissed him.
And Jesus said to him: Friend, why are you coming? So they came up and seized Jesus and seized him.
And behold, one of those who were with Jesus reached out his hand, drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Do you think that I cannot pray to my Father now, and that he would not give me more than twelve legions of angels?
How, then, would the Scriptures fulfill that this must happen?
At that hour Jesus said to the people, "Have you come out with swords and sticks to take me as against a thief? Every day I sat with you teaching in the temple, and you did not arrest me.
But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets are fulfilled. Then all the disciples, leaving him, fled.
And those who arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered.
But Peter followed him from afar to the courtyard of the high priest; and entering, he sat down with the guards, to see the end.
And the chief priests, and the elders, and the whole council sought false witness against Jesus, to deliver him to death;
but they did not find it, although many false witnesses appeared; but at last two false witnesses came,
who said: This said: I can demolish the temple of God and in three days rebuild it.
And the high priest arose and said to him, "Do you not answer anything?" What do these testify against you?
But Jesus was silent. Then the high priest said to him: I adjure you by the living God, to tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus said to him: You have said it; And furthermore I tell you that from now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power of God, and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying: He has blasphemed! What more need do we have of witnesses? Here it is, right now you have heard his blasphemy.
What do you think? And they answered and said: He is guilty of death!
Then they spat on his face and punched him; and others slapped him,
saying: You prophesy to us, Christ, who it is that has struck you.
And Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard; And a servant girl came to him, saying: You also were with Jesus, the Galilean.
But he denied in front of everyone, saying: I don't know what you are saying.
And when he came out to the door, he saw another and said to those who were there: This man was also with Jesus of Nazareth.
And he denied again with an oath: I do not know the man.
And a little later those who were there came up and said to Pedro: Truly you are also one of them, because even your way of speaking reveals you.
Then he began to curse and swear, saying: I don't know the man! And immediately the rooster crowed.
Then Peter remembered the words that Jesus had said to him: Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And going out, he wept bitterly.