Then, calling his twelve disciples, he gave them authority over the unclean spirits, to cast them out and to heal all sickness and disease.
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: the first, Simon, who is called Peter, and his brother Andrew; Jacobo son of Zebedeo and his brother Juan;
Felipe and Bartolomé; Tomás and Mateo, the publican; Jacobo son of Alfeo, and Lebeo, by nickname Tadeo;
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, the one who also handed him over.
To these twelve Jesus sent, to whom he gave a commandment, saying: Do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter the city of Samaritans;
but go first to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And as you go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons; of grace you received, give of grace.
Do not carry gold, silver or copper in your bags;
nor a saddlebag for the road, nor two clothes to wear, nor footwear nor a staff, because the worker is worthy of his food.
But in any city or village where you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you leave.
And when you enter the house, say hello.
And if the house is worthy, your peace will come upon it; but if it is not worthy, your peace will return to you.
And if anyone does not receive you or hear your words, leave that house or city and shake the dust off your feet.
Truly, I say to you, on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that city.
Behold, I send you as sheep in the midst of wolves; So be wise as serpents and simple as doves.
And beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the councils and scourge you in their synagogues;
and you will be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they hand you over, do not worry about how or what you will talk about, because in that hour what you will speak will be given to you.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents and make them die.
And you will be hated by all because of my name; but he who endures to the end will be saved.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee to the other; For truly I tell you that you will not finish touring all the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
The disciple is not more than his teacher, nor the servant more than his lord.
It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher and the servant like his lord. If the father of the family was called Beelzebú, how much more those of his house?
So do not fear them, because there is nothing hidden that is not to be manifested, or hidden that is not to be known.
What I tell you in the dark, say it in full light; And what you hear in your ear, proclaim it from the rooftops.
And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a quarter? However, not one of them falls to the ground without your Father knowing it.
Well, even your hair is all numbered.
So do not fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.
To anyone therefore who confess me before men, I will confess also before my Father who is in heaven.
And whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
For I have come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.
And man's enemies will be those of his house.
He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
And he who does not take up his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me.
He who finds his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
He who receives you receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward; and he who receives a righteous man because he is righteous, shall receive a righteous man's reward.
And anyone who gives one of these little ones a glass of cold water only, because he is a disciple, I tell you the truth, he will not lose his reward.