When they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, by the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples,
saying to them, "Go to the village in front of you, and you will soon find a donkey tied up, and a donkey with her." Untie it and bring it to me.
If someone says something to you, say, "The Lord needs you, and then He will send you."
All this happened to fulfill what the prophet said, when he said:
Say to the daughter of Zion: "Behold, your King comes to you, meek and sitting on a donkey and on a donkey, son of a beast of burden."
The disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them.
They brought the donkey and the donkey and put their cloaks on them, and he sat on them.
Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut tree branches and spread them on the road.
The crowds that went before him and those that followed him cheered saying: —Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the high!
When he entered Jerusalem, the entire city was moved saying, "Who is this?"
And the crowds said: —This is Jesus the prophet, from Nazareth in Galilee.
Jesus entered the temple and cast out everyone who sold and bought in the temple. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those who sold doves,
And he said to them, "It is written: My house will be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves."
Then blind and lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
But the chief priests and scribes were outraged when they saw the wonders he did, and the boys who cheered for him in the temple saying, "Hosanna to the Son of David!"
And they said to him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" Jesus said to them, "Yes." Have you never read: From the mouth of the children and of those who suck, did you prepare the praise?
He left them and went out of town to Bethany, and stayed there.
Returning to the city in the morning, he was hungry.
Seeing a fig tree on the road, he went to it; but he found nothing in it but only leaves, and said to him: "Never fruit of you ever sprout." The fig tree soon dried up,
And the disciples, seeing him, marveled saying: —How did the fig tree dry up so soon?
Jesus answered and said to them, "Truly I say to you that if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do this of the fig tree, but if you say to this mountain:" Take off and throw yourself into the sea, "it will be so.
Whatever you ask for in prayer, believing, you will receive.
He came to the temple and, while he was teaching, the chief priests and the elders of the town approached him and said: "By what authority do you do these things?" Who gave you this authority?
Then Jesus answered and said: —I will also ask you a question and, if you answer me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things.
Where was the baptism of John? From heaven or from men? Then they reasoned among themselves, saying: —If we say "from heaven", he will say to us: "Why, then, did they not believe him?"
And if we say "of men ...", we fear the people, because everyone has John as a prophet.
They answered Jesus and said, "We don't know. And he said to them, "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things."
"But what do you think? A man had two children. He approached the first one and said:" Son, go work in the vineyard today. "
He answered and said, "I don't want to." But then he changed his mind and it was.
As he approached the other, he said the same thing; and he responded saying: "Yes, sir, I'm going!" And it wasn't.
Which of the two did the will of his father? They said, "The first one." And Jesus said to them, "Truly I say to you that the publicans and the prostitutes enter before you into the kingdom of God.
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him; but the publicans and prostitutes believed him. And although you saw it, later you did not change your mind to believe him.
Listen to another parable: There was a man, owner of a field, who planted a vineyard. He surrounded it with a fence, dug a winery, built a tower, leased it to some farmers, and went far away.
But when the harvest time drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers to receive their fruits.
And the farmers, taking their servants, struck one, slain another, and stoned another.
He sent other servants again, in greater numbers than the first, and they did the same to them.
"Finally, he sent his son to them, saying," They will have respect for my son. "
But when they saw the son, the farmers said among themselves: "This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and take possession of his inheritance."
They seized him, threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Now, when the lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do with those farmers?
They said to him, "He will destroy the wicked without mercy, and he will lease his vineyard to other farmers, who will pay the fruit in due time.
Jesus said to them, "Have you never read the scriptures? The stone that the builders rejected, this one was made head of the angle. From the Lord this happened, and it is wonderful in our eyes.
For this reason I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to a people who will produce the fruits of the kingdom.
Whoever falls on this stone will be broken, and will crush anyone on whom it falls.
Hearing his parables, the chief priests and Pharisees understood that he spoke of them.
But looking for a way to get their hands on it, they feared the people; because I had him as a prophet.