And that day Jesus came out of the house and sat by the sea.
And many people gathered near him; And when he entered a boat, he sat down, and all the people were on the shore.
And he spoke many things to them in parables, saying: Behold, the sower went out to sow.
And while sowing, part of the seed fell along the road; and the birds came and ate it.
And part fell on stony ground, where there was not much land; and it sprouted immediately, because it had no depth of earth;
but when the sun rose, it burned; and dried, because it had no root.
And part fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew and drowned it.
And part fell into good soil and bore fruit, which a hundred, which sixty and which thirty for one.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Then the disciples came to him and said, Why are you speaking to them in parables?
And he answering said to them, Because it is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but it is not given to them.
For to anyone who has, more will be given and he will have; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
So I speak to them in parables; because seeing they do not see, and hearing they neither hear nor understand.
So the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled in them, which says: By ear you will hear, and you will not understand; And seeing ye shall see, and not perceive.
For the heart of this people has become thick, and with the ears they hear heavily, and they have closed their eyes, lest they see with the eyes, and hear with the ears, and understand with the heart, and be converted, and I will heal.
But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, because they hear.
For truly I tell you that many prophets and the righteous wanted to see what you see, and did not see it; and hear what you hear, and they did not hear it.
Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower:
When someone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the wicked comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart; This is the one that was sown along the road.
And the one who was sown on stony ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy.
But it has no root in itself, it is temporary, and when affliction or persecution comes through the word, it is immediately offended.
And he who was sown among thorns, this is he who hears the word; but the eagerness of this world and the deceit of riches drown the word, and it becomes fruitless.
But he who was sown in good soil, this is he who hears and understands the word, and he who bears fruit; and give one to one hundred, and another to sixty, and another to thirty to one.
He told them another parable, saying: The kingdom of heaven is like the man who sowed good seed in his field.
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and left.
And when the grass sprouted and bore fruit, then the tares also appeared.
And when the servants of the father of the family came, they said to him: Lord, did you not sow good seed in your field? Where, then, does he have tares?
And he said to them: An enemy has done this. And the servants said to him, Do you want us to go and tear it up?
And he said: No; lest, when you pluck up the tares, you pluck up the wheat also.
Let the one and the other grow together until the harvest; and at the time of the harvest, I will say to the reapers: First gather the tares and tie them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat in my storehouse.
Another parable related them, saying: The kingdom of the heavens is similar to the mustard seed that a man took and planted in his field.
In truth it is the smallest of all the seeds, but when it has grown it is the largest of the vegetables and it becomes a tree, and the birds come from the sky and make nests in its branches.
Another parable told them: The kingdom of heaven is similar to the leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until everything was leavened.
All this Jesus spoke by parables to the people, and without parables he did not speak to them,
so that what was said through the prophet might be fulfilled, when he said: I will open my mouth in parables; I will declare things hidden from the foundation of the world.
Then, once the people were dismissed, Jesus entered the house; And his disciples came to him and said, Explain to us the parable of the tares in the field.
And he answered and said to them: He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man;
and the field is the world; and the good seed are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the wicked;
and the enemy that sowed it is the devil; and reaping is the end of the world, and reapers are angels.
So, as the tares are plucked and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of this world.
The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all those who cause stumbling and those who do iniquity,
And they will cast them into the furnace of fire; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in their Father's kingdom. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Furthermore, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man finds and hides again; and full of joy for it, he goes and sells everything he has and buys that field.
Also the kingdom of heaven is similar to the merchant looking for good pearls,
and that, having found a pearl of great price, he went and sold all that he had and bought it.
Likewise, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that, cast into the sea, gathers all kinds of fish,
which, once full, they take it to the shore; and sitting, they gather the good in baskets and cast out the bad.
This will be the end of the world: the angels will go out and separate the wicked from among the righteous,
And they will cast them into the furnace of fire; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Jesus said to them: Have you understood all these things? They replied: Yes, Lord.
And he said to them: Therefore, every scribe who becomes a disciple in the kingdom of heaven is like a father of a family who brings out of his treasure new things and old things.
And it came to pass that when Jesus finished these parables he departed from there.
And when he came to his land, he taught them in their synagogue, in such a way that they were astonished and said: Where does this man get this wisdom and these wonderful works?
Is not this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother called Mary, and his brothers James, and Joseph, and Simon and Judas?
And are not all his sisters with us? Where then does he get all these things from?
And they were offended by him. But Jesus said to them, There is no prophet without honor except in his own land and in his house.
And he did not do many wonderful works there because of their unbelief.