The Pharisees and Sadducees approached, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
But he answered them saying: "In the evening they say: 'It will be good weather, because the sky is reddened';
and at dawn they say: 'Today there will be a storm, because the sky is red and gloomy.' They know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but they cannot discern the signs of the times.
An evil and adulterous generation asks for a sign, but no sign will be given to them, but the sign of Jonah. "And leaving them he went away.
When the disciples crossed to the other shore, they forgot to take bread with them.
Then Jesus said to them, "Look, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
They argued among themselves, saying: —It is because we did not bring bread.
But when Jesus understood it, he said to them: —Why do you argue among yourselves that you have no bread, you men of little faith?
Do you still not understand, nor do you remember the five loaves for the five thousand men and how many baskets they collected?
Nor of the seven loaves for the four thousand and how many baskets did they collect?
How come they don't understand that I didn't tell them about the bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees!
Then they understood that he did not speak to them about guarding against the leaven of bread, but rather about the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
When Jesus arrived in the Caesarea region of Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, "Who do men say the Son of Man is?"
They said: —One, John the Baptist; others, Elías; and others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said to them, "But who do you say I am?"
Simon Peter answered and said: "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God!"
Then Jesus answered and said to him, "Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
But I also tell you that you are Pedro; and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. Everything you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and what you loose on earth will have been loosed in heaven.
Then he commanded the disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Christ.
Since then, Jesus began to explain to his disciples that it was necessary for him to go to Jerusalem and suffer a lot from the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed and rise again on the third day.
Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him saying, "Lord, have compassion for yourself." This will never happen to you!
Then he turned and said to Peter, "Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me because you do not think about the things of God, but those of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, "If anyone wants to come after me, deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me."
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Well, what use is it to man if he wins the whole world and loses his life? Or what will man give as a ransom for his life?
For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will reward each one according to his deeds.
"Truly, I say to you, there are some who are here who will not taste death until they have seen the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.