At that time, Jesus passed through the fields on Saturday. His disciples were hungry and began to pluck ears and eat.
And when the Pharisees saw him, they said to him, "Look, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath."
He said to them, "Have you not read what David did when he and those who were with him were hungry;
How did he enter the house of God and eat the loaves of the Presence, that it was not lawful for him or those who were with him to eat, but only for the priests?
Have you also not read in the law that on Saturdays the priests in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and are blameless?
But I tell you, one greater than the temple is here.
If they had known what Mercy I want and not sacrifice means, they would not have condemned those who are not guilty.
Because the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
He left from there and went to their synagogue.
And behold, there was a man whose hand was paralyzed; and to accuse Jesus, they asked him, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?"
But he said to them, "What man is there among you who has a sheep, and if it falls into a well on the Sabbath, will he not lay hold of it and take it out?"
Well, how much more is a man worth than a sheep! So it is lawful to do well on Saturday.
Then she said to the man, "Hold out your hand." He held it out, and his hand was restored healthy like the other.
But when the Pharisees came out, they took advice against him, how to destroy him.
As Jesus knew, he turned away from there. Many people followed him, and he healed them all.
And he strictly ordered them not to make it known,
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, who said:
Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is pleased. I will put my Spirit on him, and he will announce judgment to the nations.
He will not contend, nor will he cry out; nor will anyone hear his voice in the squares.
The cracked reed will not break, and the smoking wick will not quench, until the trial triumphs.
And in his name the nations will put their hope.
Then a demoniac, blind and dumb was brought to him; and healed him, so that the dumb spoke and saw.
All the people were astonished and said: "Could this be the Son of David?"
But when they heard it, the Pharisees said, "This man casts out the demons not by Beelzebul, the prince of demons."
But because Jesus knew his thoughts, he said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself is ruined. And no city or house divided against itself will remain.
And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
And if I cast out demons for Beelzebul, by whom do their sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be their judges.
But if by the Spirit of God I cast out demons, surely the kingdom of God has come to you.
Because how can someone break into a strong man's house and loot his possessions unless he first ties the strong man? And then he will plunder his house.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
"This is why I tell you that all sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
And anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven either in this world or in the world to come.
"Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad; for the tree is known for its fruit.
Vipers generation! How can you, being bad, speak good things? Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man from the good treasure brings out good things, and the bad man from the bad treasure brings out bad things.
But I tell you that on the day of judgment men will account for every idle word they speak.
Because by your words you will be justified and by your words you will be condemned.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying: "Master, we wish to see a sign from you."
He answered and said to them, "An evil and adulterous generation demands a sign, but no sign will be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah.
For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment against this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the proclamation of Jonah. And behold, one greater than Jonah is in this place!
The queen of the South will rise up in judgment against this generation and condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, one greater than Solomon is in this place!
"When the unclean spirit has left man, it goes through dry places looking for rest, and does not find it.
Then he says: "I will return to my house where I came from." When he returns, he finds it unoccupied, swept and adorned.
So he goes and brings with him seven other spirits worse than himself. And after entering, they live there; and that man's final state becomes worse than the first. So will it also be with this wicked generation.
While he was still talking to people, behold his mother and brothers were outside, seeking to speak to him.
And someone said to him: —Look, your mother and your brothers are outside, looking to talk to you.
But Jesus answered the one who was talking to him and said: —Who is my mother and who are my brothers?
Then he extended his hand towards his disciples and said: —Here are my mother and my brothers!
Because whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, that is my brother, my sister and my mother.