And after six days, Jesus took Peter and James and John his brother with him, and led them up to a high mountain;
and was transfigured before them; and her face shone like the sun, and her clothes became white as the light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with him.
And Peter answering said to Jesus: Lord, it is good that we are here; If you want, let's make three branches here: one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
And while he was still speaking, behold, a cloud of light covered them; and behold a voice from the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear him.
And upon hearing this, the disciples fell on their faces and feared greatly.
Then Jesus, approaching, touched them and said: Arise and do not fear.
And raising their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus alone.
And when they came down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying: Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man rises from the dead.
Then his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And Jesus answering said to them, Truly, Elijah will come first and restore all things.
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but they did with him whatever they wanted; so also the Son of Man will suffer at their hands.
The disciples then understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist.
And when they reached the crowd, a man came to him and knelt down before him, saying:
Lord, have mercy on my son, who is a lunatic and suffers terribly; because many times it falls in the fire, and many others in the water.
And I have brought it to your disciples, but they could not heal it.
And Jesus answering said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear you? Bring it to me here.
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of the boy, and he was healed from that hour.
So the disciples came to Jesus apart and said: Why couldn't we cast him out?
And Jesus said to them: Because of your unbelief; For truly I say to you that if you have faith like a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain: Go from here to there, and it will pass; and nothing will be impossible for you.
But this genre only comes out with prayer and fasting.
And while they were in Galilee, Jesus said to them: The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men,
and they will kill him; but on the third day he will rise again. And they were very sad.
And when they arrived at Capernaum, the two drachmas went to Pedro and they said: Does your Master not pay the two drachmas?
He said: Yes. And when he entered the house, Jesus spoke to him earlier, saying: What do you think, Simon? The kings of the earth, from whom do they collect tribute or taxes? From their sons, or from strangers?
Pedro said to him: Of strangers. Jesus said to him: Then the children are exempt.
But in order not to offend them, go to the sea and cast the hook, and to the first fish that comes out, open its mouth and you will find a mat; take it and give it to me and you.