Then certain scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem approached Jesus, saying:
Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? They do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
And he answered and said to them: Why do you also break the commandment of God for your tradition?
For God commanded, saying: Honor your father and mother, and: He who curses father or mother will surely die.
But you say: Anyone who says to his father or mother: Everything I can help you with is my offering to God,
You no longer have to honor your father or mother with help. Thus you have invalidated the commandment of God by your tradition.
You hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied of you well, when he said:
This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
In vain do they honor me, teaching doctrines commandments of men.
And calling the crowd to himself, he said to them: Hear, and understand:
It is not what enters the mouth that contaminates man; but what comes out of the mouth, that contaminates man.
Then his disciples came to him and said, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this word?
But he answered and said: Every plant that my Heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted.
Leave them; they are blind guides of the blind; and if the blind guide the blind, both will fall into the hole.
And Peter answering said to him, Explain to us this parable.
And Jesus said: Are you also still without understanding?
Do you not understand, yet, that everything that enters the mouth goes to the belly and is thrown into the latrine?
But what comes out of the mouth comes out of the heart; and that contaminates man.
Because evil thoughts, homicides, adulteries, fornication, thefts, false testimonies and blasphemies come from the heart.
These things are what pollute man; but eating with hands without washing does not contaminate man.
And when Jesus left there, he went to the regions of Tire and Sidon.
And behold, a Canaanite woman who had come out of those surroundings was crying out, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me! My daughter is seriously tormented by a demon.
But he didn't answer her a word. Then his disciples came to him and begged him, saying: Dismiss her, for she cries after us.
And he answering said, I am not sent but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
So she came and fell down before him, saying: Lord, help me!
And he answering said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
And she said: Yes, Lord; but even the little dogs eat from the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus answering said to her: O woman, great is your faith; be done with you as you want. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
And leaving Jesus from there, he came by the Sea of ​​Galilee; And going up to the mountain, he sat there.
And many people came to him who had lame, blind, dumb, handicapped and many other sick people; and they put them at the feet of Jesus, and he healed them;
so that the people marveled at seeing the dumb speak, the one-handed remain healthy, the lame walk and the blind see; and they glorified the God of Israel.
And Jesus, calling his disciples, said: I have compassion for the people, because they have been with me for three days and they have nothing to eat; And I don't want to fire them on an empty stomach, so they don't pass out on the way.
Then his disciples said to him: Where could we get so many loaves in the desert to satisfy such a large crowd?
Then Jesus said to them: How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes.
And he commanded the people to lie down on the ground.
And taking the seven loaves and the fishes, he gave thanks, broke them and gave them to his disciples, and the disciples to the people.
And they all ate and were satisfied; and from what was left of the pieces they collected seven full baskets.
And those who ate were four thousand men, not counting the women and children.
Then, once the people were dismissed, Jesus got into the boat and went to the Magdala region.