And Jesus answering, spoke to them again in parables, saying:
The kingdom of heaven is like a king who made a wedding feast for his son;
and he sent his servants to call the wedding guests, but they refused to come.
Again he sent other servants, saying: Say to the guests, Behold, I have prepared my meal; I have killed my bulls and fattened animals, and everything is arranged; come to weddings.
But they ignored and went, one to their farm, and another to their businesses;
and others, taking the servants, insulted them and killed them.
And the king, hearing this, was angry; and sending his armies, he killed those murderers and set his city on fire.
Then he said to his servants: Weddings are indeed ready; but the guests were not worthy.
Go, therefore, to the exits of the roads and call to the weddings as many as you find.
And the servants went out on the roads and gathered together all those they found, together bad and good; and the weddings were full of guests.
And the king came in to see the guests, and there he saw a man who was not dressed in a wedding garment,
And he said to him: Friend, how did you enter here without being dressed as a wedding? But he fell silent.
Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him and cast him into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Because many are called, but few are chosen.
So the Pharisees left and asked how to catch him in a word.
And their disciples sent him, with the Herodians, saying: Master, we know that you are a lover of the truth, and that you teach the way of God with truth, and that you do not take care of anyone, because you do not respect people.
Tell us, then, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar, or not?
But Jesus perceived their malice and said to them: Why do you tempt me, hypocrites?
Show me the tribute coin. And they presented him with a denarius.
Then he said to them: Whose is this image and the inscription?
They said to him: Of Caesar. And he said to them, Give therefore to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
And hearing this, they marveled, and leaving him, they went.
That day the Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection, came to him and asked him,
Saying, Master, Moses said: If anyone dies childless, his brother will marry his wife and raise offspring for his brother.
So there were seven brothers among us; and the first married and died; and having no children, he left his wife to his brother.
In the same way also the second, and the third, up to the seventh.
And after all, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, then, of which of the seven will she be his wife? Because they all had her.
Then Jesus answered and said to them: You err, ignoring the Scriptures and the power of God.
Because in the resurrection they neither marry nor give in marriage, but they are like the angels of God in heaven.
And of the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was told to you by God, which says:
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
And upon hearing this, the people were astonished at his doctrine.
Then the Pharisees, hearing that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered together.
And one of them, interpreter of the law, asked to tempt him, saying:
Master, what is the great commandment of the law?
And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is similar to this: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.
And when the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,
saying: What do you think of the Christ? Who's his father? They said to him: Of David.
He said to them, How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying:
The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool?
For if David calls him Lord, what is his Son like?
And nobody could answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day to ask him more.