At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
And Jesus calling a child, put him in their midst,
And he said: Truly I say to you that if you do not turn and become like children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
So anyone who humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me.
And whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him to have a donkey mill stone hung around his neck and to sink into the depths of the sea.
Woe unto the world because of offenses! For stumbling blocks must come, but woe to that man by whom stumbling comes!
Therefore, if your hand or foot were to cause you to fall, cut it and throw it from you; It is better for you to enter life lame or one-armed than, having two hands or two feet, being thrown into the eternal fire.
And if your eye should fall, take it out and throw it out of you; it is better for you to enter life with only one eye than, having two eyes, to be cast into hellfire.
See that you do not hold any of these little ones in vain, because I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Because the Son of Man has come to save what was lost.
What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them strays, will he not go through the mountains, leaving the ninety-nine, to look for the one that has strayed?
And if it happens that he finds it, truly I tell you that he rejoices more for that one than for the ninety-nine that did not go astray.
So, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Therefore, if your brother sins against you, go and rebuke him between you and him alone; If he listens to you, you have won your brother.
But if he doesn't listen to you, take one or two with you, so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word can be recorded.
And if you don't listen to them, tell the church; And if he doesn't listen to the church, consider him pagan and tax collector.
Truly I tell you, everything you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.
Again I tell you that if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Then Peter, approaching him, said: Lord, how many times will I forgive my brother who sins against me? Up to seven?
Jesus said to him, I do not tell you up to seven times, but even up to seventy times seven.
Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is similar to a king who wanted to do accounts with his servants.
And when he began to count, he was presented with one that owed him ten thousand talents.
But since he could not pay, his lord ordered him to be sold, and his wife and children, with everything he had, to be paid.
Then that servant, prostrate, begged him, saying: Lord, be patient with me, and I will pay you everything.
The lord, moved to mercy by that servant, released him and forgave him the debt.
But when that servant went out, he found one of his servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and taking him by the neck, he drowned him, saying: Pay me what you owe me!
Then his servant, falling down at his feet, begged him, saying: Be patient with me, and I will pay you everything.
But he did not want to, but went and threw him in prison until he paid the debt.
And when his servants saw what was happening, they were very sad, and they went and declared to their lord everything that had happened.
Then calling his lord, he said: Evil servant! All that debt I forgave you, because you begged me.
Shouldn't you also have had mercy on your fellow servant, just as I had mercy on you?
Then his lord, angrily, handed him over to the executioners until he paid all that was owed to him.
So also will my Heavenly Father do to you, if each of you does not forgive his brother for his offenses.