That day Jesus left the house and sat by the sea.
And many people came to him, so that he entered a boat to sit, and the whole crowd was standing on the beach.
Then he spoke many things in parables, saying: "Behold, a sower went out to sow.
While he was sowing, part of the seed fell along the path; and the birds came and devoured her.
And another part fell on rocky ground, where there was not much land; and it sprouted quickly, because the earth was not deep.
But when the sun came up, it burned; and because it had no root, it dried up.
And another part fell among the thorns. The thorns grew and drowned her.
And another part fell into good soil and bore fruit, one to one hundred, another to sixty and another to thirty for one.
He who has ears, let him hear. "
Then the disciples came and said to him, "Why are you speaking to them in parables?"
And he, answering, said to them: —Because you have been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but they have not been granted.
For to the one who has, it will be given, and he will have more; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
This is why I speak to you in parables; because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear nor do they understand.
Furthermore, the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled in them, which says: By hearing they will hear, and they will never understand; and looking they will see, and they will never see.
Because the hearts of these people have become numb, and with their ears they have awkwardly heard. They have closed their eyes so that they do not see with the eyes nor hear with the ears nor understand with the heart nor are they converted. And I will heal them.
But blessed are their eyes, for they see; and their ears, because they hear!
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous wanted to see what you see and did not see, and to hear what you hear and did not hear.
"You therefore hear the parable of the sower.
When someone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the one that was sown along the road.
And the one who was sown on stony ground is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;
but it has no root in itself, but is of short duration, and when affliction or persecution comes because of the word, it immediately stumbles.
And he who was sown in thorns, this is he who hears the word, but the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches drown the word, and it remains fruitless.
But the one who was sown in good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it, the one who really bears fruit and produces, one to one hundred, another to sixty, and another to thirty to one.
He presented another parable to them saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field.
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and left.
When the grass sprouted and produced fruit, then the tares also appeared.
The servants approached the owner of the field and asked him: 'Lord, did you not sow good seed in your field? Where, then, does he have tares? '
And he said to them, 'An enemy man has done this.' The servants said to him, 'So do you want us to go and pick it up?'
But he said: 'No; lest when they pick up the tares they pluck the wheat from it.
Let them both grow until harvest. When the harvest time comes, I will say to the reapers: Pick up the tares first and tie them in bundles to burn. But gather the wheat in my barn. '"
He presented another parable to them saying, "The kingdom of heaven is like the mustard seed a man took and planted in his field.
This is the smallest of all the seeds; but when it grows, it is the largest of the vegetables and becomes a tree, so that the birds come from the sky and make nests in its branches ".
He told them another parable: "The kingdom of heaven is similar to the leaven that a woman took and hid in a large quantity of flour, until everything was leavened."
All this Jesus spoke in parables to the multitudes and without parables he did not speak to them,
so what was said through the prophet was fulfilled saying: I will open my mouth with parables; I will publish things that have been hidden since the foundation of the world.
Then, once the crowd was dismissed, he returned home. And his disciples approached him saying: —Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field.
And he answered and said: —He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.
The field is the world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom, and the tares are the children of the evil one.
The enemy that sowed it is the devil. Mowing is the end of the world, and reapers are angels.
So as the tares are collected and burned in the fire, so will be the end of the world.
The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all those who cause stumbling and those who do evil,
and they will throw them into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in their Father's kingdom. He who has ears, let him hear.
"The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man discovered and then hid. And with rejoicing he goes, sells all that he has and buys that field.
"Furthermore, the kingdom of heaven is akin to a merchant searching for fine pearls.
And having found a pearl of great value, he went and sold everything he had, and bought it.
"Likewise, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was cast into the sea and gathered all kinds of fish.
When it was full, they took it to the beach. And sitting down they gathered up the good in baskets and cast out the bad.
This will be the end of the world: the angels will go out and separate the wicked from among the righteous,
and they will throw them into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
"Have you understood all these things? They said to him:" Yes.
He said to them, "Therefore, every educated scribe in the kingdom of heaven is like a father of a family who brings out of his treasure new and old things.
It happened that when Jesus finished these parables, he departed from there.
He came to their land and taught them in his synagogue, so that they were astonished and said: "Where does this man have this wisdom and these miracles?"
Is not this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother called Mary, and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas?
Are not all his sisters with us? Where, then, do all these things come from?
They scandalized him. But Jesus said to them, "There is no prophet without honor except in his own land and in his house.
And he did not do many miracles there because of their unbelief.