It happened that when Jesus finished all these words, he said to his disciples:
"They know that after two days Easter is celebrated and the Son of Man is going to be delivered to be crucified."
Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas,
and they consulted each other to seize Jesus by deceit and kill him.
But they said: "Let's not do it at the party, so that there is no fuss in the town."
While Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
A woman came to him bringing an alabaster bottle of highly priced perfume and poured it on Jesus' head while he was sitting at the table.
Seeing him, his disciples were outraged and said, "Why this waste?"
Because this could have been sold at a great price and given to the poor.
When Jesus realized it, he said to them: "Why are you bothering the woman?" Well, he has done a good deed with me.
Because you always have the poor with you, but you don't always have me.
Because by pouring this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.
Truly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what this woman has done will also be told, in memory of her.
So, one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
and he said to them: "What do you want to give me?" And I will deliver them to you. They assigned him thirty pieces of silver;
and since then he looked for the opportunity to deliver it.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples approached Jesus saying: "Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?"
He said: —Go to the city, to a certain man, and tell him: "The Master says: 'My time is near; in your house I am going to celebrate Easter with my disciples.'"
The disciples did as Jesus commanded them and prepared the Passover.
At sunset he was sitting at the table with the twelve
And while they were eating, he said, "Truly I tell you, one of you is going to hand me over."
Very saddened, they began to ask him one by one: "Could it be me, Lord?"
Then answering he said: —He who puts his hand with me on the plate, this will deliver me.
In truth, the Son of Man goes, just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It were good for that man if he had not been born.
And Judas, the betrayer, answered and said: "Could it be I, Master?" He said, "You said it."
While they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it; He broke it and gave it to his disciples, and said: —Have; eat. This is my body.
Taking the cup, and having given thanks, he gave them saying: —Everyone drink from it;
for this is my covenant blood, which is shed for the forgiveness of sins for many.
But I tell you that from now on I will not drink any more of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, "All of you will be scandalized by me tonight, because it is written: I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.
But after I am risen, I will go before you to Galilee.
Peter answered him and said, "Even if everyone is scandalized about you, I will never be scandalized.
Jesus said to him, "Truly I tell you that tonight, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times."
Pedro said to him: "Even if it is necessary for me to die with you, I will never deny you." And all the disciples said the same.
Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to the disciples, "Sit here, until I go there and pray."
He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee with him, and began to feel sad and distressed.
Then he said to them: —My soul is very sad, until death. Stay here and watch with me.
Passing a little farther, he fell on his face, praying and saying: "My father, if possible, pass this cup to me." But, not as I want, but as you.
He returned to his disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, "So they haven't been able to watch a single hour with me?"
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit, in truth, is willing; but the meat is weak.
A second time he turned away and prayed, "My father, if this cup cannot pass from me without my drinking it, your will be done."
When he returned again, he found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy with sleep.
Leaving them, he turned away again and prayed a third time, repeating the same words.
Then he returned to his disciples and said, "Are you still sleeping and resting?" Behold, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up, come on! Behold, he who betrays me is near.
While he was still speaking, Judas, who was one of the twelve, came with him and many people with swords and clubs from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
The one who was delivering him had given them a signal saying: "Whoever I kiss, that's him. Take him."
Immediately he approached Jesus and said: "I greet you, Rabbi!" And kissed him.
But Jesus said to him: - Friend, do what you came to do. Then they approached, seized Jesus and seized him.
And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, drew his sword, and, striking a servant of the high priest, cut off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Or do you think that I cannot invoke my Father and that he would not give me more than twelve legions of angels right now?
So how would the Scriptures fulfill that it needs to happen this way?
At that moment, Jesus said to the crowd, "Like against an assailant, have you come out with swords and clubs to catch me?" Every day I sat teaching in the temple, and they didn't arrest me.
But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets are fulfilled. Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.
Those who had taken Jesus brought him before Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and elders had gathered.
And Peter followed him from afar to the courtyard of the high priest's house. Having gone inside, he was sitting with the guards to see how this ended.
The chief priests, the elders, and the entire Sanhedrin sought false witness against Jesus, to be delivered to death.
But they did not find it, despite the fact that many false witnesses appeared. Finally two appeared
and they said, "He said, 'I can tear down the temple of God and build it in three days.'
The high priest got up and said, "You don't answer anything?" What do these testify against you?
But Jesus was silent. And the high priest said to him: "I adjure you by the living God to tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God!"
Jesus said to him, "You said so." Furthermore, I say to you: From now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothing, saying, "He has blasphemed!" What more need do we have of witnesses? Behold, right now, you have heard the blasphemy.
What do you think? And they answering said: —He is guilty of death!
Then they spat on his face and punched him, and others slapped him
saying, "Prophesy to us, Christ!" Who is the one who hit you?
Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a maid approached him saying: —You also were with Jesus the Galilean!
But he denied it in front of everyone saying: "I don't know what you are saying."
But when he came out the door, another maid saw him and said to those who were there: "This one was with Jesus of Nazareth."
And again he denied with an oath: "I don't know the man."
And a little later, those who were there came up and said to Pedro: —You really are one of them, because even your way of speaking reveals you.
Then he began to curse and swear, "I don't know the man!" Immediately the rooster crowed,
and Peter remembered the word of Jesus that had said to him: "Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." And going out, he wept bitterly.