And Jesus left the temple and when he was leaving, his disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple.
And he answered and said to them: Do you see all this? Truly, I say to you, there will not be a stone on a stone that is not demolished.
And while he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him separately, saying: Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and the end of the world?
And Jesus answering said to them, See to it that no one deceives you,
for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will deceive many.
And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars; Take heed that you are not troubled, for all this must take place; but it is not yet the end.
For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be pestilences, and famines and earthquakes in different places.
And all these things are just the beginning of pain.
Then they will deliver you up to be afflicted and kill you; and you will be hated by all nations because of my name.
And many will stumble then, and will give themselves to one another, and will hate each other.
And many false prophets will rise up and deceive many.
And because evil has multiplied, the love of many will grow cold.
But he who endures to the end will be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the world, as a testimony to all nations; And then the end will come.
Therefore, when you see the devastating abomination of which the prophet Daniel spoke, stay in the holy place (he who reads, understand),
then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
and he who is on the roof does not come down to get something out of his house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his clothes.
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are raising in those days!
Pray, then, that your flight is not in winter or on the Sabbath;
for then there will be great tribulation, which there has not been since the beginning of the world until now, nor will there be.
And if those days were not shortened, no meat would be saved; but for the sake of the elect, those days will be shortened.
So if anyone says to you: Look, here is the Christ, or there, do not believe it.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will do great signs and wonders, so that they will deceive, if possible, even the elect.
Behold, I have told you before.
So if they say to you: Behold, he is in the desert, do not go out; behold, it is in the chambers, believe it not.
For as the lightning that comes from the east and is shown to the west, so will also the coming of the Son of Man be.
For wherever the dead body is, there the eagles will gather.
And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven and the powers of heaven will be shaken.
And the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven; And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man who will come on the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory.
And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
From the fig tree learn the parable: When its branch is already tender and its leaves are sprouting, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass until all these things take place.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of the day and the hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, but only my Father.
But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
Because as in the days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark,
and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all, so will also the coming of the Son of Man be.
Then two will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left;
two women will be grinding in a mill; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Watch therefore, for you do not know at what hour your Lord is coming.
But know this, that if the father of the family knew at what time the thief would come, he would watch and would not allow his house to be mined.
Therefore, you also be prepared, because the Son of Man will come at the hour you do not think.
Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his lord laid over his house to give them food in time?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
But if that evil servant says in his heart: My lord is late in coming,
and begin to beat his fellow servants, and even eat and drink with the drunkards,
the lord of that servant will come in the day that does not wait for him and at the time that he does not know,
and he will cut it in the middle and put his part with the hypocrites; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.