When Jesus left the temple and was leaving, his disciples approached him to show him the temple buildings.
But He answered and said to them: Do you see all this? Truly I say to you: there will not be a stone left here on a stone that is not demolished.
And while He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him in private, saying: Tell us, when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the consummation of this century?
Jesus answered and said to them, See that no one deceives you.
Because many will come in my name, saying: "I am the Christ", and they will deceive many.
And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Watch out! Do not be alarmed, because it is necessary for all this to happen; but it is not yet the end.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and in different places there will be famines and earthquakes.
But all this is only the beginning of pain.
Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake.
Many will then stumble and fall, and betray one another, and hate each other.
And many false prophets will arise, and many will deceive.
And because of the increase in iniquity, the love of many will grow cold.
But he who endures to the end will be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come.
Therefore, when you see the ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION, which was spoken about through the prophet Daniel, placed in the holy place (whoever reads, who understands),
then those who are in Judea, flee to the mountains;
he who is on the roof, do not go down to get things out of his house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
But, woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days!
Pray that your flight does not happen in winter or on the Sabbath,
for then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not happened from the beginning of the world until now, nor will it ever happen.
And if those days were not shortened, no one would be saved; but because of the elect, those days will be shortened.
So if someone says to you: "Look, here is the Christ", or "There he is", do not believe him.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show great signs and wonders, so as to deceive, if possible, even the elect.
See that I have told you beforehand.
Therefore, if they say to you: "Look, He is in the desert", do not go; or "Look, He is in the interior rooms", do not believe them.
For as the lightning comes from the east and shines to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
Wherever the carcass is, there the vultures will gather.
But immediately after the tribulation of those days, THE SUN WILL DARK, THE MOON WILL NOT GIVE ITS LIGHT, THE STARS WILL FALL from heaven and the powers of heaven will be shaken.
Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven; and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the SON OF MAN COMING ON THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN with power and great glory.
And He will send His angels with A GREAT TRUMPET and THEY WILL GATHER together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
And learn the parable from the fig tree: when its branch becomes tender and leaves its leaves, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see all these things, know that He is near, at the doors.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
For as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
For just as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving each other in marriage, until the day Noah entered the ark,
and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away; so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Then two will be in the field; one will be carried and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be carried and the other will be left.
Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have been alert and would not have allowed him to enter his house.
Therefore, you too, be prepared, because at the hour you do not think the Son of Man will come.
Who then is the faithful and wise servant whom his lord placed over his household to give them food in due season?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly I tell you, he will put it on all his possessions.
But if that servant is bad, and says in his heart: "My lord will be late";
and he begins to beat his fellow servants, and eats and drinks with those who get drunk,
the lord of that servant will come the day that does not wait for him, and at an hour that he does not know,
and he will flog him severely and assign him a place with the hypocrites; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.