And when he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him.
And behold, a leper came to him and fell down before him, saying: Lord, if you want, you can cleanse me.
And Jesus extending his hand, touched it, saying: I want to; Be clean. And instantly he was cleansed of his leprosy.
Then Jesus said to him, "Look, do not tell anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded, to serve as a testimony to them.
And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion approached him, pleading with him,
And saying: Lord, my servant is bedridden, paralyzed, suffering a lot.
And Jesus said to him, "I will go and heal him.
But the centurion answered and said: Lord, I am not worthy that you enter under my roof; but just say the word and my servant will be healthy.
Because I am also a man under authority, with soldiers under my command; and I say to this one: "Go", and he goes; and to the other: "Come", and he comes; and to my servant, "Do this," and he does it.
When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, "Truly I tell you, in Israel I have not found such great faith in anyone.
And I tell you, many will come from the east and the west, and will sit at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
But the children of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then Jesus said to the centurion: Go; just as you have believed, may it be done to you. And the servant was healed in that same hour.
When Jesus arrived at Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying in bed with a fever.
He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she got up and served him.
And in the evening they brought him many possessed; and cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all who were sick,
so that what was said through the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled when he said: THE SAME I TAKE OUR WEAKNESSES AND WEAR OUR ILLNESSES.
When Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave the order to go to the other side.
And a scribe approached him and said: Master, I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have burrows and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
Another of the disciples said to him: Lord, let me go first and bury my father.
But Jesus said to him *: Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead.
When Jesus entered the boat, his disciples followed him.
And suddenly a great storm broke out in the sea, so that the waves covered the boat; but Jesus was asleep.
And coming to Him, they awoke Him, saying: Lord, save us, we perish!
And He said to them *: Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? Then he got up, rebuked the winds and the sea, and a great calm ensued.
And the men marveled, saying, Who is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
When he reached the other side, to the land of the Gadarenes, two demoniacs came out to meet him, coming out of the tombs, extremely violent, so that no one could pass by that path.
And they cried out, saying: What have we to do with you, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before time?
At a certain distance from them there was a herd of many pigs grazing;
and the demons begged him, saying: If you are going to drive us out, send us to the pig herd.
Then He said to them: Go! And they went out and entered the pigs; and behold, the whole herd rushed down a cliff into the sea, and perished in the waters.
Those who cared for the herd fled; and they went to the city and told everything, including that of the possessed.
And the whole city went out to meet Jesus; And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their country.
