And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these words, he left Galilee and went to the region of Judea, on the other side of the Jordan.
And many people followed him, and healed them there.
Then the Pharisees approached him, tempting him and saying: Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?
And he, answering, said to them: Have you not read that the one who made them in the beginning made them male and female,
And he said: Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and be united to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh?
So, they are no longer two, but one flesh; therefore, what God has united, man does not separate.
They said to him, Why then did Moses command him to give him a letter of divorce and repudiate it?
He said to them: Because of the hardness of your heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives; but at the beginning it was not like that.
And I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for adultery, and marries another, commits adultery; and whoever marries the divorced woman commits adultery.
His disciples said to him: If this is the condition of the man with his wife, it is not convenient to marry.
Then he said to them: Not everyone can receive this word, but only those to whom it is given.
For there are eunuchs who were thus born from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who are made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven; whoever is able to accept this, let him accept it.
Then some children were presented to him, to put his hands on them and pray; but the disciples rebuked them.
And Jesus said: Let the children come to me and do not prevent them from doing so, for such is the kingdom of heaven.
And having laid hands on them, he departed from there.
And behold, one approaching said to him, "Good teacher, what good will I do to have eternal life?"
And he said to him: Why do you call me good? None is good but one, namely, God; And if you want to enter life, keep the commandments.
He said to him: Which ones? And Jesus said: Thou shalt not kill; you shall not commit adultery; you will not steal; you will not give false testimony;
honor your father and mother; And, you will love your neighbor as yourself.
The young man said to him: All this I have kept from my youth. What else am I missing?
Jesus said to him: If you want to be perfect, go, sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
And when the young man heard this word, he left sad, because he had many possessions.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: Truly, I say to you, it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
But I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
But his disciples, hearing these things, were greatly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
And looking at them Jesus said to them: For men this is impossible, but for God everything is possible.
Then Peter answered and said to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you. What then will we have?
And Jesus said to them: Truly I tell you that, in regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children or land, by my name will receive a hundred times more and inherit eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.