Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who, taking their lamps, went out to receive the bridegroom.
And five of them were foolish, and five were prudent.
For the foolish did not take oil with them when they took their lamps,
but the prudent took oil in jars along with their lamps.
When the boyfriend was late, they all got sleepy and fell asleep.
But at midnight a cry was heard: "Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him."
So all those virgins got up and fixed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the prudent: "Give us your oil, because our lamps are going out."
But the prudent responded, saying: "No, lest there is not enough for us and for you; rather go to those who sell and buy for you."
And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were prepared entered with him to the wedding banquet, and the door closed.
Then the other virgins also came, saying, "Lord, Lord, open to us."
But he answered and said: "Truly I tell you, I do not know you."
Watch therefore, because you know neither the day nor the hour.
Because the kingdom of heaven is like a man who, on a journey, called his servants and entrusted their goods to them.
And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his ability; and went on a trip.
He who had received the five talents immediately went and negotiated with them and gained five other talents.
Also the one who had received the two talents won another two.
But he who had received one went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
After a long time * the lord of those servants came, and settled * accounts with them.
And the one who had received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, "Lord, you gave me five talents; look, I have gained another five talents."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your lord."
The man with the two talents also came and said, "Lord, you gave me two talents; look, I have gained two other talents."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your lord."
But when he who had received a talent also arrived, he said: "Lord, I knew that you are a hard man, that you reap where you did not sow and you reap where you did not scatter,
and I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground; Look, here you have what is yours".
But his lord answered, and said to him: "Bad and lazy servant, did you know that I mow where I did not sow, and that I gather where I did not scatter.
Then you should have put my money in the bank, and on arrival I would have received my money with interest.
So take the talent from him and give it to the one with the ten talents. "
For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
And cast the useless servant into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory;
and all nations will be gathered before Him; and will separate one from another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left.
Then the King will say to those on his right: "Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Because I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and you received me;
I was naked, and you clothed me; sick, and you visited me; in jail, and you came to me. "
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, "Lord, when did we see you hungry, and gave you food, or thirsty, and gave you drink?
And when did we see you as a stranger, and receive you, or naked, and clothe you?
And when did we see you sick, or in prison, and come to you? "
The King answered and said to them: "Truly I say to you that as soon as you did it to one of these brothers of mine, even to the smallest ones, you did it to me."
Then he will also say to those on his left, "Depart from me, you cursed ones, to the eternal fire that has been prepared for the devil and his angels.
Because I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat, I was thirsty, and you did not give me to drink;
I was a stranger, and you did not receive me; I was naked, and you did not clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn't visit me. "
Then they will also respond, saying, "Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or as a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we did not serve you?"
He will then answer them, saying: "Truly I say to you that inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me either."
And these will go to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life.