Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, in the days of King Herod. And behold, magicians came from the east to Jerusalem
asking, "Where is the king of the Jews, who was born?" Because we have seen his star in the east and we have come to worship him.
When King Herod heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And having summoned all the chief priests and the scribes of the people, he asked them where the Christ was to be born.
They said to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet:
And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, you are by no means the least among the rulers of Judah; for from you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.
Then Herod secretly called the magicians and inquired of them the time of the star's appearance.
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said to them, "Go and find out carefully about the boy." As soon as they find him, let me know, so I can go and love him too.
They, after hearing the king, left. And behold, the star that they had seen in the east went before them, until it arrived and stopped over where the child was.
Seeing the star, they rejoiced with great joy.
When they entered the house, they saw the boy with Mary his mother, and prostrating themselves they adored him. Then they opened their treasures and offered him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh.
But, warned by revelation in dreams not to return to Herod, they returned to their country by another route.
After they left, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream saying: "Get up; take the boy and his mother, and flee to Egypt. Stay there until I tell you, because Herod is going to look for the boy to kill it".
So Joseph got up, took the boy and his mother at night, and went to Egypt.
And he was there until Herod's death, so that what the Lord spoke through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying: From Egypt I called my son.
Then Herod, being mocked by the magicians, became extremely angry and ordered to kill all the male children in Bethlehem and in all its surroundings, from two years of age and below, according to the time he had found out about the magicians.
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, saying:
Voice was heard in Ramah; great crying and lamentation. Rachel wept for her children, and did not want to be comforted, because they perished.
When Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream in Egypt
saying: "Get up, take the child and its mother, and go to the land of Israel, because those who were trying to take the child's life have died."
So he got up, took the boy and his mother, and entered the land of Israel.
But, hearing that Archelaus reigned in Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there and, warned by revelation in dreams, he went to the regions of Galilee.
Having arrived, he lived in the city called Nazareth. Thus was fulfilled what was said through the prophets, who was to be called a Nazarene.