At that moment the disciples approached Jesus, saying: Who, then, is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
And He, calling a child, put him in their midst,
And he said: Truly I tell you that if you do not convert and become like children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
So anyone who humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me.
But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better if they hung a millstone around their neck that moves an ass, and drowned in the deep sea.
Woe to the world for its stumbling blocks! Because it is inevitable that stumbling blocks will come; but woe to that man through whom stumbling comes!
And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away from you; it is better for you to enter life with one hand or lame, than having two hands and two feet, being cast into the eternal fire.
And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away from you. It is better for you to enter life with only one eye, than having two eyes, to be cast into the hell of fire.
See that you do not despise one of these little ones, because I tell you that his angels in heaven always contemplate the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Because the Son of Man has come to save what was lost.
What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has strayed, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains, and go in search of the straying?
And if it does happen to find it, I truly tell you that it rejoices more over this than over the ninety-nine that have not gone astray.
Thus, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
And if your brother sins, go and rebuke him alone; If he listens to you, you have won your brother.
But if he doesn't listen to you, take one or two more with you, so that EVERY WORD IS CONFIRMED BY THE MOUTH OF TWO OR THREE WITNESSES.
And if you refuse to listen to them, tell the church; And if he also refuses to listen to the church, be for you as the Gentile and the tax collector.
Truly I say to you: whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.
Furthermore, I tell you that if two of you agree on anything they ask for here on earth, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in their midst.
Then Peter came up to him and said, Lord, how many times will my brother sin against me that I will forgive him? Up to seven times?
Jesus said to him *: I do not tell you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven.
So the kingdom of heaven can be compared to a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.
And as he began to adjust them, he was presented with one that owed him ten thousand talents.
But since he did not have what to pay, his lord ordered them to sell him, along with his wife and children and everything he owned, and thus pay the debt.
Then the servant fell prostrate before him, saying: "Be patient with me and I will pay you all."
And the lord of that servant had compassion, and released him and forgave him the debt.
But when that servant came out, he found one of his servants who owed him a hundred denarii, and reaching for him, drowned him, saying: "Pay what you owe."
Then his servant, falling at his feet, begged him, saying: "Be patient with me and I will pay you."
However, he did not want to, but went and threw him in jail until he paid what he owed.
So when their servants saw what had happened, they were very sad, and they went and told their lord everything that had happened.
Then, calling him his lord, he said to him: "Evil servant, I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.
Shouldn't you also have felt sorry for your fellow servant, just as I felt sorry for you? "
And enraged his lord, he handed him over to the executioners until he paid all that was owed to him.
So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if you do not forgive each one his brother from the heart.
