And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these words, he left Galilee and went to the region of Judea, across the Jordan;
Large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
And some Pharisees came to him to test him, saying: Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?
And Jesus answering said, Have you not read that the one who created them, FROM THE BEGINNING MADE THEM MALE AND FEMALE,
and added: "FOR THIS REASON MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND FATHER AND JOIN HIS WOMAN, AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH"?
Therefore they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has united, no man separates.
They said to him *: Then why did Moses command to give him a letter of divorce and to reject it?
He said to them *: Because of the hardness of your heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives; but it has not been so from the beginning.
And I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for infidelity, and marries another, commits adultery.
The disciples said to him *: If this is the relationship of the man with his wife, it is not convenient to marry.
But He said to them: Not everyone can accept this precept, but only those to whom it has been given.
For there are eunuchs who were thus born from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Whoever can accept this, let him accept it.
Then some children were brought to him to lay hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said: Leave the children, and do not prevent them from coming to me, because of those who are like these is the kingdom of heaven.
And after putting his hands on them, he left there.
And behold, one came to him and said: Master, what good will I do to obtain eternal life?
And He said to him: Why do you ask me about the good? Only One is good; but if you want to enter life, keep the commandments.
He said to her *: Which ones? And Jesus answered: YOU WILL NOT KILL; YOU WILL NOT COMMIT ADULTERY; Thou shalt not steal; YOU WILL NOT GIVE A FALSE WITNESS;
HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER; and YOU WILL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF.
The young man said to him: "All this I have kept; What am I still missing?
Jesus said to him: If you want to be perfect, go and sell what you own and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But when the young man heard these words, he left sad, because he owned many goods.
And Jesus said to his disciples: Truly I tell you, it is difficult for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Hearing this, the disciples were filled with wonder, and they said: Then who can be saved?
But Jesus, looking at them, said to them: For men this is impossible, but for God everything is possible.
Then Peter answered and said to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you; What then will we receive?
And Jesus said to them: Truly I say to you that you who have followed me, in regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, you will also sit on twelve thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children or land for my name's sake, will receive a hundred times more, and will inherit eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
