And when they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
Saying to them: Go to the village before you, and you will immediately find a tethered ass and a colt with it; untie her and bring them to me.
And if someone says something to you, say: The Lord needs you. And he will send them right away.
And all this happened to fulfill what was said by the prophet, when he said:
Say to the daughter of Zion: Behold, your King comes to you, meek and sitting on a donkey, and on a colt, son of a pack animal.
Then the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them;
and they brought the donkey and the colt, and laid their cloaks upon them; and he sat on it.
And the crowd, which was very large, spread their cloaks on the road; and others cut tree branches and spread them on the road.
And the crowds before him and those behind him cheered, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the high!
And as he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was in uproar, saying, Who is this?
And the people said: This is Jesus, the prophet, from Nazareth in Galilee.
And Jesus entered the temple of God and cast out all those who sold and bought in the temple; and overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those who sold pigeons;
And he said to them: It is written: My house will be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves.
Then blind and lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
But the chief priests and the scribes, seeing the wonders he did and the boys who cheered in the temple and said: Hosanna to the Son of David !, were outraged
and they said to him: Do you hear what these say? And Jesus said to them: Yes; Did you never read: From the mouth of the little ones and of the infants of the breast, have you perfected the praise?
And leaving them, he went out of the city, to Bethany; and stayed there.
And in the morning, returning to the city, he was hungry.
And when he saw a fig tree near the road, he went to her, but found nothing in it, but only leaves, and said to him: Never again will fruit be born from you! And immediately the fig tree was dried.
And when the disciples saw this, they marveled, saying: How did the fig tree dry up instantly?
And Jesus answering said to them: Truly I say to you that if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do this of the fig tree, but if you say to this mountain: Take off and throw yourself into the sea, it will be done.
And whatever you ask for in prayer, believing, you will receive.
And when he came to the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people approached him while he was teaching, and asked him: By what authority do you do this? And who gave you this authority?
And Jesus answering said to them: I will also ask you a question, and if you answer it, I will also tell you by what authority I do this.
John's baptism, where was he from? From heaven or from men? They then argued among themselves, saying: If we say from heaven, he will say to us: Why then did you not believe him?
And if we say of men, we fear the people, because everyone has John as a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said: We do not know. And he also said to them: Neither do I tell you by what authority I do this.
But what do you think? A man had two children, and approaching the first, he said: Son, go work in my vineyard today.
And he answered and said: I do not want to; but later, repentant, it was.
And approaching the other, he said in the same way; And he answered and said: Yes, sir, I am going. But it was not.
Which of the two did the will of his father? They said: The first. Jesus said to them, Truly I tell you, the publicans and the harlots go before you into the kingdom of God.
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him; but the publicans and the harlots believed him; but you, although you saw this, did not later regret to believe him.
Listen to another parable: There was a man, the father of a family, who planted a vineyard; And he fenced it off, and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and leased it to some farmers, and departed far.
And when the time for the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen to receive their fruits.
But the farmers, taking the servants, beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they dealt with them in the same way.
Finally he sent his son to them, saying: They will have respect for my son.
But the farmers, when they saw the son, said among themselves: This is the heir; come, let us kill him and take his inheritance.
And taking him, they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him.
When the lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?
They said to him, He will destroy the wicked without mercy, and he will lease his vineyard to other farmers who will pay the fruit in due time.
Jesus said to them: Did you never read in the Scriptures: The stone that the builders rejected has become the head of the corner. Has the Lord done this, and is it a wonderful thing in our eyes?
Therefore, I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to people who produce the fruits of it.
And whoever falls on this stone will be broken; and on whom she falls, will crush it.
And when they heard his parables, the chief priests and the Pharisees understood that he spoke of them.
And seeking to lay hands on him, they feared the people, because they considered him a prophet.