At that time Jesus was going through the fields on the Sabbath; and his disciples were hungry and began to pluck ears and eat.
And when the Pharisees saw him, they said to him, Behold, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.
But he said to them: Have you not read what David did when he and those who were with him were hungry;
How did he enter the house of God and eat the showbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor those who were with him, but only the priests?
Or, have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and are without fault?
For I tell you that one greater than the temple is here.
But if you knew what it means: I want mercy and not sacrifice, you would not condemn the innocent;
for the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
And leaving from there, he came to their synagogue.
And behold, there was one who had a dry hand; And they asked him, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? to accuse him.
And he said to them, What man is there among you who has a sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, does he not lay hold of it and raise it up?
Well, how much more is a man worth than a sheep? So it is lawful on the Sabbath to do good.
Then she said to that man: Extend your hand. And he extended it, and it was restored to him like the other.
And when the Pharisees came out, they consulted each other against Jesus to destroy him.
But Jesus, knowing it, withdrew from there; and many people followed him, and healed them all.
And he strictly instructed them not to discover him,
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, when he said:
Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my Beloved, in whom my soul is pleased. I will put my Spirit on him, and he will announce judgment to the Gentiles.
He will not contend, nor will he cry, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets.
The cracked reed will not break, and the smoking wick will not quench until the trial is victorious.
And in his name the Gentiles will wait.
Then a demoniac, blind and dumb was brought to him; and he healed him, so that he who had been blind and dumb spoke and saw.
And all the people were astonished and said: Is not this the Son of David?
But the Pharisees, when they heard him, said: This man does not cast out demons but through Beelzebú, prince of demons.
And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated; and every city or house divided against itself will not remain.
And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself; How then will his kingdom remain?
And if I cast out demons for Beelzebub, who are your children casting them for? Therefore they shall be your judges.
But if by the spirit of God I cast out demons, surely the kingdom of God has come to you.
For how can anyone enter the strong man's house and plunder his possessions if he does not bind him first? And then he will plunder his house.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
Therefore I say to you: All sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men; but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
And anyone who speaks against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, neither in this age nor in the age to come.
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad; because by the fruit the tree is known.
Vipers generation! How can you speak good things, being evil? Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man out of the good treasure of the heart brings out good things, and the bad man out of the bad treasure brings out bad things.
But I say to you that of every idle word that men speak, they will give account of it on the day of judgment.
Because by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying: Master, we desire to see a sign from you.
And he answered and said to them: The evil and adulterous generation demands a sign, but a sign will not be given, but the sign of the prophet Jonah.
For as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented for Jonah's preaching; and behold, there is one greater than Jonah in this place.
The queen of the south will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, there is one greater than Solomon in this place.
When the unclean spirit has left man, it goes through dry places looking for rest, but it does not find it.
Then he says: I will return to my house from where I left; and when it arrives, it finds it unoccupied, swept and adorned.
Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits worse than he, and they enter and dwell there; and the last things of that man are worse than the first. So also it will be to this evil generation.
And while he was still talking to the people, behold his mother and his brothers were outside and wanted to speak to him.
And one said to him: Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside, and they want to speak to you.
And he answering the one who told him this, said: Who is my mother and who are my brothers?
And extending his hand towards his disciples, he said: Behold my mother and my brothers.
For everyone who does the will of my Father who is in heaven, that is my brother, and sister and mother.