That same day Jesus left the house and sat on the seashore.
And large crowds gathered near Him, so He got into a boat and sat down; and the entire crowd was standing on the beach.
And he spoke many things to them in parables, saying: Behold, the sower went out to sow;
and when sowing, part of the seed fell along the road, and the birds came and ate it.
Another part fell on rocky ground where it did not have much land; and immediately it sprouted because it had no depth of earth;
but when the sun rose, it burned; and because it had no root, it dried up.
Another part fell among thorns; and the thorns grew and drowned it.
And another part fell on good soil and bore fruit, some seeds at one hundred for one, others at sixty and others at thirty.
He who has ears, let him hear.
And the disciples came to him and said, Why do you speak to them in parables?
And He answering said to them, For it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but it has not been given to them.
For whosoever hath, to him shall be given more, and he shall have abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken away.
That is why I speak to you in parables; because seeing they do not see, and hearing they neither hear nor understand.
And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says: "WHEN YOU HEAR, YOU WILL HEAR, AND YOU WILL NOT UNDERSTAND; AND SEEING, YOU WILL SEE, AND YOU WILL NOT PERCEIVE;
FOR THE HEART OF THIS PEOPLE HAS BECOME INSENSITIVE AND WITH DIFFICULTY HEAR WITH THEIR EARS; AND THEIR EYES HAVE BEEN CLOSED, SO THAT THEY SEE WITH THE EYES, AND HEAR WITH THE EARS, AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND BE CONVERTED, AND I HEAL THEM ".
But blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears, because they hear.
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous wanted to see what you see, and did not see it; and hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
So listen to the parable of the sower.
To everyone who hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the one in whom the seed was sown along the road.
And the one in whom the seed was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;
but it has no deep root in itself, but is only temporary, and when affliction or persecution comes from the word, it immediately stumbles and falls.
And the one in whom the seed was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the worries of the world and the deceitfulness of riches drown the word, and it remains fruitless.
But the one in whom the seed was sown in good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it, this one does bear fruit and produces, one to one hundred, another to sixty and another to thirty.
Jesus told them another parable, saying: The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field.
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and left.
When the wheat sprouted and produced grain, then the tares also appeared.
And the servants of the owner went and said to him: "Lord, did you not sow good seed in your field? How, then, does it have tares?"
He said to them, "An enemy has done this." And the servants * said to him, "Do you want us to go and collect it, then?"
But he said *: "No, lest by gathering the tares you pluck the wheat along with it.
Let them both grow together until the harvest; and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers: "First gather the tares and tie them in bundles to burn them, but collect the wheat in my barn" ".
He told them another parable, saying: The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and planted in his field,
and that of all the seeds it is the smallest; but when it has grown, it is the greatest of vegetables, and it becomes a tree, so that THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN come and NEST IN ITS BRANCHES.
He told them another parable: The kingdom of heaven is similar to the leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until everything was fermented.
All this Jesus spoke in parables to the multitudes, and spoke nothing to them without parable,
so that what was said through the prophet could be fulfilled, when he said: I WILL OPEN MY MOUTH IN PARABLES; I WILL TALK ABOUT HIDDEN THINGS FROM THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD.
Then he left the crowd and entered the house. And his disciples came to him, saying: Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field.
And He answered and said: He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man,
and the field is the world; and the good seed are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the evil one;
and the enemy that sowed it is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels.
Therefore, just as the tares are collected and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the world.
The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all who are stumbling blocks and those who do iniquity;
and they will cast them into the fiery furnace; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then THE RIGHTEOUS WILL SHINE LIKE THE SUN in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.
The kingdom of heaven is similar to a treasure hidden in the field, that when a man finds it, he hides it again, and with joy for it, he goes, sells everything he has and buys that field.
The kingdom of heaven is also like a merchant looking for fine pearls,
and finding a pearl of great value, he went and sold everything he had and bought it.
The kingdom of heaven is also similar to a sweeping net that was cast into the sea, and collected fish of all kinds;
and when it was full, they took it to the beach; and they sat down and gathered the good fish in baskets, but they cast out the bad.
So it will be at the end of the world; the angels will go out, and will bring out the wicked from among the righteous,
and they will throw them into the fiery furnace; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Have you understood all these things? They said to him *: Yes.
And He said to them, That is why every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house who takes out of his treasure new things and old things.
And it happened that when Jesus finished these parables, he left there.
And coming to his people, he taught them in his synagogue, in such a way that they marveled and said: Where did he get this wisdom and these miraculous powers?
Is not this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother called Mary, and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas?
Are not all his sisters with us? Where then did he get all these things?
And they were scandalized because of Him. But Jesus said to them: There is no prophet without honor, except in his own land and in his house.
And he did not do many miracles there because of their unbelief.
