And when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of King Herod, behold, magi came from the east to Jerusalem,
saying: Where is the King of the Jews who has been born? Because we have seen his star in the east and we come to adore him.
And hearing this, King Herod was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And, having summoned all the chief priests and the scribes of the people, he asked them where the Christ was to be born.
And they said to him: In Bethlehem of Judea, because thus it is written by the prophet:
And you, Bethlehem, from the land of Judah, you are not the smallest among the princes of Judah; for out of you will come a guide, who will feed my people Israel.
Then Herod, secretly calling the magicians, diligently inquired of them the time when the star had appeared;
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, "Go there, and ask diligently about the child, and when you find him, let me know, so that I too may go and worship him."
And they, having heard the king, went away; and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, until, coming, it stopped over where the child was.
And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with great joy.
And when they entered the house, they saw the boy with his mother Maria, and falling down, they adored him; And opening their treasures, they offered him presents: gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.
But warned by revelation, in dreams, not to return to Herod, they returned to their land by another way.
And when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you, because Herod will happen will look for the boy to kill him.
And he, awakening, took the child and his mother at night, and went to Egypt;
and he was there until Herod's death, so that what the Lord declared through the prophet would be fulfilled, when he said: From Egypt I called my Son.
Herod then, when he was mocked by the magicians, was very angry, and ordered to kill all the children under two years old who were in Bethlehem and in all its surroundings, according to the time he had found out about the magicians.
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, when he said:
Voice was heard in Ramah, great lamentation, weeping and moaning; Rachel who cries for her children, and did not want to be comforted, because they perished.
But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream in Egypt,
saying, Arise, and take the child and its mother, and go to the land of Israel, those who were trying to kill the child have already died.
So he got up and took the boy and his mother and went to the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea instead of Herod, his father, he was afraid to go there; and warned by revelation, in dreams, he went to the region of Galilee.
And he came and lived in the city called Nazareth, so that what was said through the prophets, that he was to be called a Nazarene, would be fulfilled.