Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples,
saying: The scribes and the Pharisees have sat on the chair of Moses.
So whatever they tell you to keep, keep it and do it; but do not do according to their works, because they say, but do not.
Because they tie heavy and difficult loads to carry, and put them on the shoulders of men; but they don't even want to move them with a finger.
Rather, they do all their works to be seen by men; for they widen their phylacteries and extend the fringes of their cloaks;
and they long for the first seats at dinners, and the first chairs in synagogues,
and the greetings in the squares and being called by men: Rabbi, Rabbi.
But you do not want to be called Rabbi; for one is your Master, the Christ, and you are all brothers.
And do not call anyone on earth your father, for one is your Father, who is in heaven.
Don't even be called teachers, because one is your Master, the Christ.
He who is the greatest among you will be your servant.
For he who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
But, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you close the kingdom of heaven before men; for neither you enter nor let those who are entering.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you devour the houses of the widows and, as a pretext, you make a long prayer; for this you will receive greater condemnation.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you cross sea and land to make a proselyte; and when you succeed, you make him twice as much a child of hell as you.
Woe to you, blind guides! What do you say: Whoever swears by the temple does not mean anything; but anyone who swears by the gold of the temple is bound.
Foolish and blind! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that sanctifies gold?
You also say: Anyone who swears by the altar does not mean anything; but whoever swears by the offering that is on him, is forced.
Fools and blind! For which is greater, the offering or the altar that sanctifies the offering?
For he who swears by the altar, swears by it and by all that is on it;
and he who swears by the temple, swears by it and by Him who dwells in it;
He who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by Him who sits on it.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you tithe the mint, and the dill and the cumin, and you have left the most important thing of the law: justice, and mercy and faith; this had to be done, while continuing to do the other.
Blind guides, you sneak the mosquito, but you swallow the camel!
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you clean what is outside the glass and the plate; but inside you are full of theft and injustice.
Blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and the plate, so that the outside also may be clean!
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you are similar to whitewashed tombs, which on the outside, indeed, are beautiful, but inside they are full of dead bones and all filth.
In the same way, on the outside, you are indeed just to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
and you say: If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been their accomplices in the blood of the prophets.
Thus you bear witness against yourselves that you are the children of those who killed the prophets.
You too, fill the measure of your parents!
Snakes, generation of vipers! How will you escape the judgment of hell?
Therefore, behold, I send you prophets, and wise men and scribes; and of them, some you will kill and crucify, and others you will scourge in your synagogues and you will persecute from city to city;
so that all the righteous blood that has been shed on the earth may come upon you, from the blood of Abel, the righteous, to the blood of Zacharias the son of Berechiah, whom you killed between the temple and the altar.
Truly I tell you, all this will come from this generation.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the hen gathers her chicks under the wings, and you didn't want to!
Here is our house completely empty for you.
For I tell you that from now on you will see me no more, until you say: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!