And when he saw the crowds, he went up the mountain and sat down. And his disciples came to him.
And opening his mouth, he taught them, saying:
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek, for they will receive the land as an inheritance.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will be satisfied.
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God.
Blessed are those who suffer persecution for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are you when they reproach and persecute you for my cause, and tell all kinds of evil against you, lying.
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven; for thus they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth; but if the salt loses its flavor, with what will it be salty? It is no longer good for anything, but to be cast out and trampled under foot by men.
You are world's light; a city sitting on a hill cannot be hidden.
Neither a candle is lit and placed under a bushel, but on the candlestick, and it illuminates all those who are at home.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets; I have not come to abrogate, but to fulfill.
For truly I tell you that until heaven and earth pass, not a jot or a tittle will pass from the law, until all is accomplished.
So that anyone who breaks one of these very small commandments, and thus teaches men, very little will be called in the kingdom of heaven. But anyone who fulfills them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I tell you that if your justice does not exceed that of the scribes and that of the Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
You heard that it was said to the ancients: Thou shalt not kill; and anyone who kills will be guilty of judgment.
But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be guilty of judgment; and anyone who says to his brother, Raca, will be guilty before the council; and anyone who says: Foolish, will be exposed to hell fire.
So if you bring your offering to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
leave your offering there in front of the altar and go, be reconciled with your brother first, and then come and present your offering.
Reconcile quickly to your adversary, while you are with him on the road, lest the adversary hand you over to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the bailiff, and you are thrown into prison.
Truly I tell you, you will not leave there until you have paid the last quadrant.
You heard that it was said: You shall not commit adultery.
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Therefore, if your right eye is a chance for you to fall, take it out and throw it out of you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand gives you the chance to fall, cut it off and throw it away from you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
It was also said: Anyone who divorces his wife, give her a divorce letter.
But I say to you that he who divorces his wife, except for adultery, causes her to commit adultery; and whoever marries the divorced woman commits adultery.
You have also heard that it was said to the ancients: You will not swear falsely, but you will fulfill your oaths to the Lord.
But I tell you: Do not swear in any way; nor by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King.
You will not swear by your head, because you cannot make a single hair black or white.
But let your speech be: Yes, yes, or No, no, because what is more of this, proceeds from evil.
You heard that it was said: An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
But I say to you: do not resist the evil; rather, to anyone who hits you on the right cheek, turn the other too;
And whoever wants to sue you and take your tunic off, also leave the cape;
and anyone who forces you to carry a load for a mile, go with him two.
To the one who asks you, give; And whoever wants to borrow from you, don't refuse it.
You heard that it was said: You will love your neighbor and you will hate your enemy.
But I say to you: Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who abuse you and persecute you;
that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, who makes his sun rise on the evil and the good, and rains on the just and the unjust.
Because if you love those who love you, what reward will you have? Do not publicans also do the same?
And if you greet your brothers only, what do you do of more? Do not the Gentiles also do so?
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect.
