"Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to receive the bridegroom.
Five of them were foolish, and five were prudent.
When the foolish took their lamps, they did not take oil with them;
but the prudent took oil in their vessels, together with their lamps.
And since the boyfriend was late, they all nodded and fell asleep.
At midnight he heard himself cry out, "Behold the groom! Come out to meet him!"
Then, all those virgins got up and readied their lamps.
And the foolish said to the prudent: "Give us your oil, because our lamps are going out."
But the prudent responded by saying, "No, lest we and you are lacking; rather go to the vendors and buy for yourselves."
While they were going to buy, the groom arrived; and the prepared women entered the wedding with him, and the door was closed.
Then the other virgins also came saying: "Lord, Lord, open to us!"
But he responding said: "Truly I tell you that I do not know them."
Watch, then, because you know neither the day nor the hour.
"For the kingdom of heaven will be like a man who, on a long journey, called his servants and gave them their goods.
To one he gave five thousand coins, to another two thousand, and to another thousand. To each he gave according to his ability and went far away.
Immediately, the one who had received 5,000 coins left, negotiated with them and won another 5,000 coins.
In the same way, the one who had received two thousand also gained another two thousand.
But he who had received a thousand went and dug in the ground, and hid his master's money.
"After a long time, the lord of those servants came and settled accounts with them.
When the one who had received five thousand coins appeared, he brought another five thousand coins and said: "Sir, you gave me five thousand coins; behold, I have earned another five thousand."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord."
And when the one who had received two thousand coins appeared, he said: "Sir, you gave me two thousand coins; behold, I have earned another two thousand."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord."
But when the one who had received a thousand coins appeared, he said: "Lord, I know you that you are a hard man, that you reap where you did not sow and you reap where you did not scatter.
And since I was afraid, I went and hid your thousand coins in the ground. Here's what is yours. "
His lord answered and said: "You bad and lazy servant! Did you know that I harvest where I did not sow and I gather where I did not scatter?
Therefore, you should have given my money to the bankers and, when I came, I would have received what is mine with the interest.
So take away the thousand coins and give them to the one who has ten thousand coins.
For to everyone who has it will be given, and he will have an abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
Cast out the useless servant in the outer darkness. "There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
"When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory;
and all the nations will be gathered before him. He will separate one from the other, as when the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats;
and he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left.
"Then the King will say to those on his right:" Come, blessed of my Father! Inherit the kingdom that has been prepared for you since the foundation of the world.
Because I was hungry, and they gave me food; I was thirsty, and they gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and they received me;
I was naked, and they clothed me; sick, and they visited me; I was in jail, and they came to me. "
Then the righteous will respond by saying, "Lord, when did we see you hungry and sustain you, or thirsty and give you drink?
When did we see you a stranger and receive you, or naked and clothe you?
When did we see you sick, or in prison, and come to you? "
And the King will answer them saying: "Truly I tell you that as soon as they did it to one of these my younger brothers, they did it to me."
"Then he will also say to those on his left, 'Depart from me, you cursed ones, to the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Because I was hungry, and they did not give me food; I was thirsty, and they didn't give me a drink;
I was a stranger, and they did not receive me; I was naked, and they didn't dress me; sick and in jail, and they didn't visit me. "
Then they will answer him: "Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we did not serve you?"
Then he will answer them saying: "Truly I tell you, as soon as they did not do it to one of these little ones, they did not do it to me either."
Then these will go to eternal torment, and the righteous to eternal life.