Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples,
saying to them: "The scribes and the Pharisees are sitting in the chair of Moses.
So, whatever you are told do it and keep it; but do not do according to their works, because they say and do not.
They tie heavy and hard-to-carry loads, and put them on men's shoulders; but they themselves do not want to move them even with their finger.
Rather, they do all their works to be seen by men. They widen their phylacteries and lengthen the fringes of their cloaks.
They love the first seats at banquets and the first chairs in synagogues,
greetings in the squares and being called by men: Rabbi, Rabbi.
"But you, do not be called Rabbi; because only one is your Teacher, and all of you are brothers.
And do not call anyone your Father on earth, because your Father who is in heaven is one.
Do not call them a Guide, because their Guide is one, the Christ.
But the one who is the greatest among you will be your servant;
for he who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because they close the kingdom of heaven before men. For you do not enter, nor do you allow those who are entering.
,
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because they cross sea and land to make a single proselyte and, when they succeed, they make him a son of hell twice as much as you.
"Woe to you, blind guides! For they say: 'If one swears by the sanctuary, it means nothing; but if one swears by the gold of the sanctuary, one is under obligation.'
Fools and blind! Which is more important: the gold or the sanctuary that sanctifies gold?
Or they say: 'If you swear by the altar, it doesn't mean anything; but if he swears by the offering that is on the altar, he remains under obligation. '
Blind! Which is more important: the offering or the altar that sanctifies the offering?
Therefore, he who swears by the altar, swears by the altar and by all that is on it.
And he who swears by the sanctuary, swears by the sanctuary and by him who dwells in it.
And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits on it.
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because they give the tithe of mint, dill and cumin; but they have omitted the most important part of the law, namely: judgment, mercy and faith. It was necessary do these things without skipping those.
Blind guides, who strain the mosquito but swallow the camel!
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because they clean the outside of the glass or the plate, but inside they are full of robbery and debauchery.
Blind Pharisee! Clean the inside of the glass first so that the outside is also clean!
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you are similar to whitewashed tombs that, indeed, are beautiful on the outside; but inside they are full of dead bones and all impurity.
In the same way you, outwardly, appear righteous to men; but inside they are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
"Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because they build the graves of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
and they say: 'If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been their accomplices in the blood of the prophets.'
Thus you testify against yourselves that you are the children of those who killed the prophets.
Fill you also the measure of your parents!
"Snakes! Generation of vipers! How will they escape the damnation of hell?
Therefore, look; I send you prophets, sages, and scribes; And of them, some will be killed and crucified, and others will be scourged in their synagogues and persecuted from city to city,
so that all the righteous blood that has been shed on the earth may come upon you, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zacharias son of Berechiah, whom they killed between the sanctuary and the altar.
Truly I say to you, that all this will fall on this generation.
"Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to you! How many times I wanted to gather your children, just as the hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you did not want to!
Behold, their house is left to them deserted,
Because I tell you that from now on you will not see me anymore until you say: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! "