At that time Herod, the Tetrarch, heard the fame of Jesus
And he said to his servants: This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead, and so these powers work in him.
Because Herod had arrested John, and had chained him and put him in prison, because of Herodias, wife of his brother Philip,
because Juan said to him: It is not licit to have it.
And Herod wanted to kill him, but he feared the people, because they had John as a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced in front of everyone and pleased Herod,
for which he promised with an oath to give him everything he asked for.
And she, first instructed by her mother, said: Give me here on a plate the head of John the Baptist.
Then the king was saddened, but because of the oath and those who were with him at the table, he ordered it to be given to him.
And ordered Juan to be beheaded in prison.
And her head was brought on a plate and given to the girl, and she presented it to her mother.
Then his disciples came, and took the body and buried it; and they went and gave the news to Jesus.
And when Jesus heard this, he departed from there in a boat to a deserted and isolated place; and when the multitude knew it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
And when Jesus came out, he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed those who were sick of them.
And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying: The place is desert and the hour is past; dismiss the crowd to go through the villages and buy food for themselves.
And Jesus said to them: You have no need to go; feed them.
And they said: We have here but five loaves and two fishes.
And he said to them: Bring them to me here.
And he commanded the people to lie down on the grass; He took the five loaves and the two fishes, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he blessed, and broke and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples to the people.
And they all ate and were satisfied; and they collected what was left, twelve full baskets.
And those who ate were about five thousand men, not counting the women and children.
And immediately Jesus made his disciples enter the boat and go before him to the other side of the lake, meanwhile he dismissed the crowd.
And after he had dismissed the crowd, he went up the mountain to pray apart; and when night came, he was there alone.
And the boat was already in the middle of the sea, lashed by the waves, because the wind was contrary.
But on the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went to them walking on the sea.
And the disciples, seeing him walk on the sea, were troubled, saying: A ghost! And they cried out in fear.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying: Be of good cheer! I am, do not be afraid!
Then Peter answered him and said: Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the waters.
And he said: Come. And Peter got out of the boat and walked on the waters to go to Jesus.
But when he saw the strong wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, he cried out, saying: Lord, save me!
And immediately Jesus, extending his hand, seized him and said: O man of little faith! Why did you hesitate?
And when they got into the boat, the wind died down.
Then those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying: Truly you are the Son of God.
And after crossing over to the other side, they reached the land of Genesaret.
And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent the news throughout all the surrounding land, and brought to him all the sick;
and they begged him only to let them touch the edge of his cloak; and all who touched it were healed.