"Do not judge, so that you will not be judged.
For with what judgment they judge they will be judged, and with what measure they measure it will be measured.
"Why do you look at the straw that is in your brother's eye but stop seeing the beam that is in your own eye?
How will you say to your brother, 'Let me take the blade out of your eye,' and behold, the beam is in yours?
Hypocrite! Take the beam out of your own eye first, and then you can see to get the blade out of your brother's eye.
"Do not give the holy to the dogs, nor throw your pearls before the pigs, lest you trample them and then turn against you and tear them to pieces.
"Ask, and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you.
For everyone who asks receives, he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened.
What man is there among you who will give the son who asks for bread a stone?
Or whoever asks for fish will give a snake?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good things to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him?
"So, whatever you want men to do for you, so also do for them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.
"Enter through the narrow door; because the door is wide and the road that leads to perdition is spacious, and many enter through it.
But how narrow is the door and how narrow is the path that leads to life! And there are few who find it.
"Beware of false prophets, who come to you dressed as sheep, but inside are ravenous wolves.
They will know them by their fruits. Are grapes picked from thorn bushes or figs from thistles?
So too, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but a rotten tree bears bad fruit.
The healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can the rotten tree bear good fruit.
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
So by their fruits you will know them.
"Not everyone who says to me 'Lord, Lord' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will say to me on that day: 'Lord, Lord! Do we not prophesy in your name? Do we not cast out demons in your name? And did we not do many mighty works in your name? '
Then I will declare to them: 'I have never met you. Get away from me, you evildoers! '
"Anyone, therefore, who hears these words from me and does them, will be like a prudent man who built his house on the rock.
And the rain fell, torrents came, winds blew and beat against that house. But it did not collapse, because it had been founded on the rock.
"But everyone who hears these words from me and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.
The rain fell, torrents came and winds blew, and lashed against that house. And it collapsed, and its ruin was great. "
And it came to pass that, when Jesus finished these words, the multitudes were amazed at his teaching;
because he taught them as one who has authority, and not as scribes.