And when he saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain; and after sitting down, his disciples approached him.
And opening his mouth, he taught them, saying:
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.
Blessed are the humble, for they will inherit the earth.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will be satisfied.
Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
Blessed are those who seek peace, for they will be called children of God.
Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed will you be when they insult and persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you, because of me.
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for thus they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth; but if the salt has become tasteless, with what will it become salty again? It is useless now, but to be thrown out and trampled by men.
You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden;
nor is a lamp lit and placed under a bushel, but on the candlestick, and it illuminates all who are in the house.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets; I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.
Because in truth I tell you that until heaven and earth pass, not the smallest letter or one tittle of the law will be lost until everything is fulfilled.
Anyone, therefore, who annuls one of these commandments, even the smallest, and so teaches others, will be called very little in the kingdom of heaven; but whoever keeps and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I tell you that if your justice does not exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
You have heard that the ancestors were told: "Thou shalt not kill" and: "Anyone who commits murder will be guilty in court."
But I tell you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be guilty in court; and anyone who says "Raca" to his brother will be guilty before the supreme court; and anyone who says, "Idiot," will be convicted of hellfire.
So if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
leave your offering there in front of the altar, and go, be reconciled with your brother first, and then come and present your offering.
Be at ease with your adversary while you are on the road with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge to the bailiff, and you be thrown into prison.
Truly I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid the last penny.
You have heard that it was said, "You shall not commit adultery."
But I tell you that everyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
And if your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away from you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away from you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to go to hell.
He also said to himself, "Anyone who divorces his wife should give her a divorce letter."
But I tell you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for infidelity, makes her commit adultery; and anyone who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
You have also heard that the ancestors were told: "You will not swear falsely, but you will fulfill your oaths to the Lord."
But I tell you: do not swear in any way; nor by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King.
You will not swear by your head, because you cannot make a single hair black or white.
Rather, let it be your speaking: "Yes, yes" or "No, no"; and what is more of this, comes from evil.
You have heard that it was said: "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth."
But I say to you: do not resist the evil one; rather, to anyone who slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other too.
And whoever wants to sue you and take your tunic off, also leave the cape.
And anyone who forces you to go a mile, go with him two.
To the one who asks you, give; and whoever wants to borrow from you, don't turn your back on him.
You have heard that it was said: "You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy."
But I say to you: love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,
that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven; because He makes his sun rise on the bad and the good, and rain on the just and unjust.
Because if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not tax collectors do the same?
And if you only greet your brothers, what do you do more than others? Do not the Gentiles also do the same?
Therefore, be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.