Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have also gained entrance by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we glory in the hope of the glory of God.
And not only this, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces patience;
and patience, proven character; and the tried character, hope;
and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit that was given to us.
For while we were still weak, in due time Christ died for the wicked.
Because there will hardly be someone who dies for a righteous person, although perhaps someone dares to die for the good.
But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Then much more, having now been justified by his blood, we will be saved from the wrath of God through Him.
Because if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, having been reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
And not only this, but we also glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, so also death spread to all men, because they all sinned;
for before the law there was sin in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law.
However, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned with a transgression similar to that of Adam, who is a figure of the one to come.
But it does not happen with the gift as with the transgression. Because if by the transgression of one the many died, much more, the grace of God and the gift by the grace of a man, Jesus Christ, abounded for the many.
Neither does it happen with the gift as with what came through the one who sinned; because the judgment certainly arose because of a transgression, resulting in condemnation; but the gift arose because of many transgressions resulting in justification.
For if by one's transgression death reigned through this, much more will they reign in life through you, Jesus Christ, those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of justice.
Thus, just as by a transgression resulted in the condemnation of all men, so also by an act of justice was the justification of life for all men.
For just as by the disobedience of one man the many were made sinners, so also by the obedience of one the many will be made righteous.
And the law was brought in that transgression might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound,
so that as sin reigned in death, so also grace reigns through justice for eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.