So we who are strong must bear the weaknesses of the weak and not please ourselves.
Each one of us pleases his neighbor in what is good for his edification.
For even Christ did not please himself; rather, as it is written: THE VITUPERIES OF THOSE WHO INJURED YOU FELL ON ME.
Because everything that was written in times past was written for our teaching, so that through patience and the comfort of the Scriptures we have hope.
And may the God of patience and comfort grant you to have the same feelings towards each other according to Christ Jesus,
so that with one voice, with one voice, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore accept one another, just as Christ accepted us for the glory of God.
For I tell you that Christ became the servant of circumcision to demonstrate the truth of God, to confirm the promises given to parents,
and for the Gentiles to glorify God for his mercy; as it is written: THEREFORE, I WILL CONFESS YOU AMONG THE GENTILES, AND I WILL SING IN YOUR NAME.
And he says again: REJOICE, GENTILES, WITH YOUR PEOPLE.
And again: PRAISE THE LORD ALL THE GENTILES, AND PRAISE ALL THE PEOPLES.
And in turn, Isaiah says: THE ROOT OF ISAÍ, THE ONE WHO RISES TO RULE THE GENTILES, WILL RETOINT. THE GENTILES WILL PUT HIS HOPE ON HIM.
And the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
As for you, my brothers, I myself am also convinced that you are full of goodness, full of all knowledge and also capable of admonishing each other.
But I have boldly written to you about some things, in order to make you remember them again, by the grace that was given to me by God,
to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, ministering as a priest the gospel of God, so that the offering I make of the Gentiles is acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Therefore, in Christ Jesus I have found reason to glory in things that refer to God.
For I dare not speak of anything but of what Christ has done through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, in word and in deed,
with the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and the surroundings to the Illyrian I have preached in all its fullness the gospel of Christ.
In this way I endeavored to announce the gospel, not where Christ was already known, so as not to build on the foundation of another;
but as it is written: THOSE WHO HAVE NEVER BEEN ANNOUNCED ABOUT HIM, WILL SEE, AND THOSE WHO HAVE NOT HEARD, WILL UNDERSTAND.
For this reason many times I have been prevented from going to you,
but now, with no more places left for me in these regions, and since for many years I have had a great desire to come to you,
When I go to Spain I will come to you, because I hope to see you in passing and that you help me to continue there, after I have enjoyed your company a little.
But now I am going to Jerusalem for the service of the saints,
for Macedonia and Achaia have seen fit to collect for the poor from among the saints in Jerusalem.
Yes, they did well to do it, and the truth is that they are indebted to them. For if the Gentiles have partaken of their spiritual goods, they are also bound to serve the saints in material goods.
So when I have fulfilled this and I have given you this offering, I will go to Spain arriving on my way to see you.
And I know that when I come to you, I will go in the fullness of Christ's blessing.
I beg you, brothers, for our Lord Jesus Christ and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
that I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service to Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
and so that with joy I come to you by the will of God, and find comforting rest with you.
The God of peace be with you all. Amen.
