Therefore, justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have also gained access by faith [b] to this grace in which we stand and glory in the hope of the glory of God.
And not only this, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance,
and perseverance produces tried character, and tried character produces hope.
And hope does not bring shame because the love of God has been poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit who has been given to us;
because, even though we are weak, in due time Christ died for the wicked.
Hardly anyone dies for a righteous man. Still, it could be that someone dares to die for the good.
But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Then, being already justified by his blood, how much more through him will we be saved from wrath.
Because if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, how much more, already reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
And not only this, but we glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
For this reason, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, so death passed to all men, because all sinned.
Before the law, sin was in the world, but since there was no law, sin was not taken into account.
However, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who did not sin with an offense similar to that of Adam, who is the figure of the one to come.
But the gift is not like the offense. For if by the offense of that one many died, how much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of one man abound for many: Jesus Christ.
Nor is the gift as the sin of that one because judgment, in truth, arose from a single offense for condemnation, but grace arose from many offenses for justification.
For if by one's offense death reigned for that one, how much more will those who receive the abundance of his grace and the gift of justice through that one reign in life: Jesus Christ.
So just as one's offense reached all men for condemnation, so also the righteousness performed by one reached all men for the justification of life.
For as by the disobedience of one man many were made sinners, so also by the obedience of one many will be made righteous.
The law entered to enlarge the offense, but as soon as the sin was enlarged the grace abounded
so that, just as sin reigned for death, so also grace reigns for justice for eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.