So those of us who are firmer must cope with the weaknesses of the weak, and not please ourselves.
Each one of us pleases his neighbor in what is good, for edification.
Because not even Christ pleased himself; rather, as it is written: The vituperations of those who reviled you fell on me.
Because the things that were written before, were written for our teaching, so that by patience and by the consolation of the Scriptures, we have hope.
But the God of patience and consolation give you among yourselves to be unanimous according to Christ Jesus,
so that with one voice, with one voice, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, accept one another, just as Christ accepted us, to the glory of God.
So I say that Christ Jesus became a servant of circumcision to show the truth of God, to confirm the promises made to the parents,
and so that the Gentiles may glorify God for his mercy, as it is written: Therefore I will confess you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.
And again he says: Rejoice, Gentiles, with his people.
And again: Praise the Lord, all the Gentiles; and magnify him, all peoples.
And again, says Isaiah: There will be a root of Jesse, and the one who will rise to rule the Gentiles; the Gentiles will put their hope in him.
And the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
And I am sure of you, my brothers, that even you yourselves are full of goodness, full of all knowledge, in such a way that you can admonish each other.
But I have written to you, brothers, in part boldly, as if to remind you by the grace that God has given me,
to be a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, so that the offering of the Gentiles may be pleasant, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
So I have something to boast about in Christ Jesus when it comes to God.
For I would not dare speak of anything that Christ has not done through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, with word and deed,
with the power of miracles and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and around Illyric, I have filled everything with the gospel of Christ.
And in this way I endeavored to preach the gospel, not where before Christ was appointed, so as not to build on another's foundation,
but, as it is written: Those to whom it was never announced about him will see; and those who have never heard will understand.
For this reason I have been prevented many times from coming to you.
But now, having no more place in these regions, and wishing to come to you for many years,
When I go to Spain, I will come to you, because I hope to see you in passing, and to be directed there by you, after having enjoyed with you.
But now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints.
Because Macedonia and Achaia saw fit to collect for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
Because it seemed good to them, and they are debtors to them; for if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual goods, they must also serve them in the material goods.
So, when this is over, and I have given you this fruit, I will come to visit you towards Spain.
And I know that when I come to you, I will come with the abundance of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.
But I beg you, brothers, for our Lord Jesus Christ and for the love of the Spirit, to help me by praying to God for me,
that I may be delivered from the rebels who are in Judea, and that the offering of my service to the saints in Jerusalem be accepted;
so that with joy it comes to you by the will of God, and that it finds rest together with you.
And the God of peace be with you all. Amen.