Paul, servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,
that He had already promised through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
about his Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh,
and that he was declared the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead: our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have received grace and the apostolate to promote obedience to the faith among all Gentiles, for the love of his name;
among whom are also you, called of Jesus Christ;
To all the loved ones of God who are in Rome, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First of all, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is spoken of throughout the world.
For God, whom I serve in my spirit in the preaching of the gospel of his Son, is a witness to me how I ceaselessly mention you
always in my prayers, imploring that now, at last, by the will of God, I may come to you.
Because I long to see you to impart some spiritual gift, so that you may be confirmed;
that is, so that when I am among you we can comfort each other, each for the other's faith, both yours and mine.
And I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often made plans to visit you (and until now I have been hindered) in order to obtain some fruit also among you, as well as among the other Gentiles.
I have an obligation both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, to the wise and to the ignorant.
So, for my part, I am eager to announce the gospel also to you who are in Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes; of the Jew first and also of the Greek.
Because in the gospel the justice of God is revealed by faith and for faith; as it is written: BUT THE RIGHTEOUS BY FAITH WILL LIVE.
Because the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and injustice of men, who unjustly restrict the truth;
for what is known about God is evident within them, for God made it evident to them.
Because since the creation of the world, its invisible attributes, its eternal power and divinity, have been clearly seen, being understood through the created, so that they have no excuse.
For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God nor did they give thanks, but they became vain in their reasoning and their foolish heart was darkened.
Professing to be wise, they became fools,
and they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man, of birds, of quadrupeds and of reptiles.
Therefore, God gave them over to impurity in the lust of their hearts, so that they dishonored each other their own bodies;
because they exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and they adored and served the creature instead of the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions; because his women changed the natural function for the one that is against nature;
and in the same way also the men, abandoning the natural use of the woman, ignited in their lust with each other, committing shameful acts men with men, and receiving in themselves the corresponding punishment for their loss.
And since they did not see fit to recognize God, God gave them over to a depraved mind, to do the things that are not convenient;
being full of all injustice, wickedness, greed and malice; filled with envy, homicide, lawsuits, deception and malignancy; they are gossips,
detractors, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
without understanding, unworthy of trust, without love, ruthless;
Although they know the decree of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do them, but also give their approval to those who practice them.