Therefore, you have no excuse, oh man, it does not matter who you are who you judge, because in what you judge another you condemn yourself, because you who judge do the same.
But we know that God's judgment is according to truth against those who practice such things.
O man who judges those who practice such things and do the same, do you suppose you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you belittle the riches of his goodness, patience, and magnanimity, ignoring that God's goodness guides you to repentance?
But by your hardness and by your unrepentant heart you accumulate anger upon yourself for the day of wrath and of the revelation of God's just judgment.
He will reward each one according to his works:
eternal life to those who by their perseverance in good works seek glory, honor and incorruption;
but anger and wrath to those who are contentious and do not obey the truth but obey the injustice;
tribulation and anguish over every person who does evil (the first Jew, and also the Greek);
but glory, honor and peace to everyone who does good (to the Jew first, and also to the Greek).
For there is no distinction of persons before God.
So all who sinned without the law will also perish without the law; and all who have sinned having the law, will be judged by the law.
For it is not the hearers of the law that are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified.
For when Gentiles who have no law by nature practice the content of the law, though they have no law they are law to themselves.
They show the work of the law written on their hearts, while their conscience agrees with their testimony; and their reasoning accuses or excuses each other
on the day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men through Jesus Christ.
Behold, you have the name of being a Jew, you lean on the law and you glory in God.
You know his will and you approve what is best because you are instructed in the law.
You are convinced that you are the guide of the blind, the light of those who are in darkness,
instructor of those who do not know, teacher of children, having in the law the full expression of knowledge and truth.
You, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach against theft, do you steal?
You who speak against adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you commit sacrilege?
You who boast in the law, do you dishonor God by breaking the law?
For as it is written: The name of God is blasphemed because of you among the Gentiles [a].
Because circumcision really benefits if you keep the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
So, if the uncircumcised follows the just precepts of the law, will his uncircumcision be considered as circumcision?
He who is physically uncircumcised but completely keeps the law will judge you, who with the letter and with circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
Because the one who is visible is not a Jew, nor is the circumcision visible in the flesh
but, rather, he is a Jew who is intimate, and circumcision is that of the heart, in spirit and not in letter. Such praise does not come from men but from God.