What advantage, then, does the Jew have? Or what benefit is there in circumcision?
A lot, in every way. First, that the words of God have been entrusted to you.
What, then, if some of them have been unfaithful? Could their unfaithfulness invalidate God's faithfulness?
No way! Rather, may God be truthful even though every man is a liar, as it is written: That you may be justified in your words and overcome when you are judged.
But if our injustice highlights God's justice, what will we say? Is it unjust God who gives the punishment? (I speak as a man).
No way! For in such a case, how would God judge the world?
But if the truth of God abounded in my falsehood for his glory, why am I still judged as a sinner?
And why not say, "Let us do evil that good may come"? Of this we are slandered, and some affirm that we say so. The condemnation of such is just.
So? Do we have an advantage for them? Of course not; because we have already accused both Jews and Gentiles saying that they are all under sin,
as it is written: There is not even one righteous;
there is no one who understands, there is no one who seeks God.
They all parted, one was made useless; there is no one who does good, there is not even one [b].
Open grave is his throat; they deceive with their tongues. There is snake venom under his lips;
his mouth is full of curses and bitterness [c].
His feet are swift to spill blood;
there is ruin and misery in their ways.
They did not know the way of peace;
there is no fear of God before his eyes [d].
But we know that everything the law says, it says to those who are under the law so that all mouths are closed and everyone is under judgment before God.
For by the works of the law no one will be justified before him; for through the law comes the recognition of sin.
But now, apart from the law, the justice of God has been manifested as witnessed by the Law and the Prophets.
This is the justice of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. Well there is no distinction
because everyone sinned and did not reach the glory of God,
being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.
As a demonstration of his justice, God has made him an atonement for the faith in his blood, because of the forgiveness of past sins, in the patience of God,
with the purpose of manifesting his justice in the present time so that he is just and, at the same time, justifier of those who have faith in Jesus.
Where, then, is boasting? It is excluded. For what kind of law? Because of the works? Never! Rather, by the law of faith.
So we consider man to be justified by faith without the works of the law.
Is God the only God of the Jews? Is it not also for the Gentiles? Of course! It is also of the Gentiles.
Because there is only one God, who will justify by faith those of the circumcision and, through faith, those of the uncircumcision.
Then do we invalidate the law by faith? No way! Rather, we confirm the law.