What shall we say then? Will we continue in sin so that grace will abound?
No way! How can we who have died to sin still live in it?
Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death?
For we are buried with him by death through baptism, so that as Christ rose from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we also may walk in new life.
For if we were planted together with him in the likeness of his death, so shall we also be in the likeness of his resurrection;
knowing this, that our old man was crucified together with him, so that the body of sin would be undone, so that we would no longer serve sin.
For he who is dead is free from sin.
And if we die with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him,
knowing that Christ, having risen from the dead, no longer dies; death no longer lords over him.
Because having died, he died to sin once and for all; but when living, for God lives.
So you too, consider that you are indeed dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Therefore, let not sin reign in your mortal body, lest you obey it in its lusts;
neither present your members to sin as instruments of iniquity; Rather, present yourselves to God as living from the dead, and your members to God as instruments of justice.
For sin will not rule over you, for you are not under law, but under grace.
So what? Will we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? No way!
Do you not know that to whom you give yourselves as servants to obey, you are servants of the one whom you obey, whether from sin to death, or from obedience to justice?
But thank God, that although you were servants of sin, you have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered;
Freed from sin, you became servants of justice.
I speak as a human, because of the weakness of your flesh; for just as for wickedness you offered your limbs to serve uncleanness and iniquity, so now, for sanctification, offer your limbs to serve justice.
Because when you were servants of sin, you were free in regard to justice.
What fruit, then, did you have from those things of which you are now ashamed? Because the end of them is death.
But now that you have been freed from sin and made servants of God, you have as your fruit sanctification, and as an end, eternal life.
Because the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord.