Do you not know, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law has jurisdiction over a person while he lives?
For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives; but if her husband dies, she is released from the law regarding the husband.
So, while her husband lives, she will be called an adulteress if she joins another man; but if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so she is not an adulteress even if she joins another man.
Therefore, my brothers, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be united with another, the one who rose from the dead, so that we may bear fruit for God.
Because while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions awakened by the law, acted on the members of our body in order to bear fruit for death.
But now we have been freed from the law, having died to what bound us, so that we serve in the novelty of the Spirit and not in the archaism of the letter.
What shall we say then? Is the law a sin? No way! On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin had it not been for the law; because I would not have known what greed is, if the law had not said: Do not covet.
But sin, taking advantage of the commandment, produced in me all kinds of greed; for apart from the law sin is dead.
And at one time I lived without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died;
and this commandment, which was for life, turned out to me for death;
for sin, taking advantage of the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me.
So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, just, and good.
So what is good became a cause of death for me? No way! On the contrary, it was sin, in order to show that it is sin by producing my death through what is good, so that through the commandment sin would become extremely sinful.
Because we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold into slavery to sin.
Because what I do, I don't understand; because I do not practice what I want to do, but what I hate, I do.
And if what I don't want to do, I do, I agree with the law, recognizing that it is good.
So it is no longer I who do it, but the sin that lives in me.
Because I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good lives; because willing is present in me, but doing good is not.
Well, I don't do the good I want, but the bad I don't want, I practice that.
And if what I do not want to do, I do, it is no longer I who do it, but the sin that lives in me.
So, wanting to do good, I find the law that evil is present in me.
Because in the inner man I delight in the law of God,
but I see another law in the members of my body that makes war against the law of my mind, and makes me prisoner of the law of sin that is in my members.
Wretched me! Who will free me from this body of death?
Thank God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. So I myself, on the one hand, serve the law of God with my mind, but on the other, with the flesh, the law of sin.