I entrust you to Phoebe, our sister, who is at the service of the church that is in Cencrea;
that you receive her in the Lord, as she is worthy of the saints, and that you help her in whatever she needs to do; because she has helped many and also myself.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my collaborators in Christ Jesus,
who laid down their lives for me, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
Likewise greet the church that meets at his house. Greet Epeneto, my beloved brother, who is the firstfruits of Achaia for Christ.
Greet Mary, who has worked hard among you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are highly esteemed by the apostles, who were also before me in Christ.
Greet Amplias, my beloved brother in the Lord.
Greet Urbano, our collaborator in Christ Jesus, and Estaquis, my beloved brother.
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those who are from Aristobulus.
Say hello to Herodion, my relative. Greet those who are from the house of Narcissus, those who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who work hard in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persida, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Greet Rufo, chosen in the Lord, and his mother who is also mine.
Greet Asyncritus and Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes and the brothers who are with them.
Greet Philologist and Julia, Nereo and his sister, and Olimpas and all the saints who are with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
And I beg you, brothers, to pay attention to those who cause dissension and stumbling against the doctrine that you have learned; and depart from them.
Because such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own bellies, and with soft words and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Because your obedience has become noticeable to all, so I rejoice in you; but I want you to be wise for good, and innocent in evil.
And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timoteo, my collaborator, and Lucio and Jasón and Sosípater, my relatives, greet you.
I, Third, who wrote the epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, my host, and the whole church greets you. Erastus, treasurer of the city, and brother Fourth greet you.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And to him who can confirm you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that has been hidden from eternal times,
but that it has been manifested now, and that by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, it has been declared to all nations to obey the faith;
to the only wise God, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.