I say then: Has God rejected his people? No way! For I, too, am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
God has not rejected his people, whom he knew before. Or do you not know what Scripture says about Elijah, how he spoke to God against Israel, saying:
Lord, your prophets have been killed, and your altars have been torn down; and I am left alone, and are you trying to kill me?
But what does the divine response tell you? I have reserved for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed their knees before Baal.
So also, even at this time there is a remnant according to the election by grace.
And if by grace, no longer by works; otherwise grace is no longer grace. And if by works, it would no longer be grace; otherwise the work would no longer be work.
So? What Israel sought, it has not reached; but the choice has reached it; and the rest were hardened;
as it is written: God gave them a spirit of torpor, eyes with those who do not see, and ears with those who do not hear, to this day.
And David says: Turn their table to them in a trap and in a net, and in a stumbling block, and in retribution for them.
Their eyes are darkened so that they do not see, and their backs are agony forever.
I say then: Have they stumbled so that they fell? No way! Rather, by their transgression salvation came to the Gentiles, that they might be provoked to jealousy.
And if their transgression is the wealth of the world, and their failure the wealth of the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness be?
Because I speak to you, Gentiles. Because I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I honor my ministry,
in case I somehow provoke jealousy to those of my flesh, and save some of them.
Because if the rejection of them is the reconciliation of the world, what will be their admission, if not life from the dead?
And if the firstfruits are holy, so is the remaining mass, and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, have been grafted in place of them and have been partakers of the root and the rich sap of the olive tree,
do not brag against the branches; And if you boast, remember that you do not support the root, but the root yourself.
Well, the branches, you will say, were cut off so that I could be grafted.
Well, because of their unbelief they were torn apart, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear;
because if God did not forgive the natural branches, He will not forgive you either.
Look, then, at the goodness and severity of God: severity certainly for those who fell, but goodness for you, if you remain in that goodness; otherwise you will also be cut down.
And even they, if they do not remain in unbelief, will be grafted in, because God is powerful to graft them in again.
Because if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and against nature you were grafted into the good olive tree, how much more these, which are the natural branches, will be grafted into their own olive tree?
For I do not want you, brothers, to ignore this mystery, so that you do not be arrogant about yourselves: that the hardening has happened to Israel, in part, until the fullness of the Gentiles has entered;
and thus, all Israel will be saved; as it is written: The Deliverer will come from Zion, who will take away wickedness from Jacob;
and this will be my covenant with them, when I take away their sins.
So, as for the gospel, they are enemies because of you; but as for the choice they are very loved because of the parents,
because the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable.
For as you also once disobeyed God, but now you have obtained mercy through their disobedience,
so these also have now disobeyed, so that, by the mercy shown to you, they also now be shown mercy.
Because God has subjected everyone in disobedience, to have mercy on everyone.
Oh the depth of the riches, the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!
Because who understood the mind of the Lord? Or who was your counselor?
Or who gave it to him first, to be rewarded?
Because of him, and through him, and to him are all things. Let the glory be his for centuries. Amen.