Paul, servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,
that he had promised before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures,
about his Son (who was of the blood of David according to the flesh,
who was declared the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead), of Jesus Christ our Lord,
through whom we receive grace and the apostolate, for obedience to faith in all nations because of his name,
among which you also are called to be of Jesus Christ;
To all of you who are in Rome, loved by God, called to be saints: Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
First of all, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, that your faith is preached throughout the world.
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that incessantly I always remember you in my prayers,
praying that somehow at last I have, by the will of God, a prosperous journey to come to you.
Because I want to see you, to impart to you some spiritual gift, in order to strengthen you;
namely, to be comforted together with you by the faith that we and you have in common.
But I do not want you, brothers, to be unaware that many times I have proposed to come to you (but until now I have been hindered), to also have some fruit among you, as among other Gentiles.
Greeks and non-Greeks, wise and unwise I am a debtor.
So, as for me, I am soon to announce the gospel also to you who are in Rome.
Because I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes; to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
Because in the gospel the justice of God is revealed by faith and for faith; as it is written: But the just shall live by faith.
Because the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and injustice of men who hold back the truth with injustice,
because what is known of God is manifested in them, because God manifested it to them.
Because his invisible things, his eternal power and divinity, are clearly seen from the creation of the world, being understood by means of things done, so that they have no excuse.
Because having known God, they did not glorify him as God, nor did they thank him; rather they were clouded in their vain imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.
Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,
and they changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the image of corruptible man, and of birds, and of quadrupeds and reptiles.
Wherefore also God gave them up to uncleanness, in the lust of their hearts, so that they dishonored each other their own bodies;
which changed the truth of God into a lie, worshiping and serving creatures before the Creator, the one who is blessed forever. Amen.
For this reason God gave them up to shameful passions, because even their wives changed the natural use for that which is against nature.
In the same way, men also, leaving the natural use of women, flared up in their lusts with each other, committing shameful acts men with men, and receiving in themselves the compensation corresponding to their loss.
And since they did not seem to consider God, God gave them over to a depraved mind, to do what is not convenient,
being full of all injustice, fornication, perversity, avarice, evil; full of envy, murder, strife, deception and malignancy; of gossip,
detractors, haters of God, insulting, arrogant, arrogant, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
foolish, disloyal, without natural affection, unforgiving, without mercy;
who, having understood the judgment of God, that those who do such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but even consent to those who do them.