Accept the weak in faith, but not to judge their opinions.
One has faith that he can eat anything, but he who is weak eats only vegetables.
He who eats does not despise him who does not eat, and he who does not eat does not judge him who eats, because God has accepted him.
Who are you to judge someone else's servant? For his own master he stands or falls, and he will remain standing, because the Lord is powerful to hold him up.
One judges that one day is superior to another, another judges the same every day. Each one is fully convinced according to his own feelings.
He who keeps a certain day keeps it for the Lord; and he who eats, for the Lord eats, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat abstains from the Lord and thanks God.
For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself;
for if we live, for the Lord we live, and if we die, for the Lord we die; therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's.
Because for this Christ died and rose again, to be Lord of both the dead and the living.
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or also, you, why do you look down on your brother? For we will all appear before the judgment seat of God.
For it is written: As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow before me, and every tongue shall praise God.
So each of us will give an account of himself to God.
Therefore, let us no longer judge each other, but rather decide this: not to put obstacle or stumbling block to the brother.
I know, and I am convinced in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in itself; but for those who consider that something is unclean, for him it is.
Because if your brother is saddened by food, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died.
Therefore do not allow evil to be spoken of what is good for you.
Because the kingdom of God is not food or drink, but justice and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves Christ in this way is acceptable to God and approved by men.
So let us seek what contributes to peace and mutual edification.
Don't destroy God's work because of food. Actually, all things are clean, but they are bad for the man who scandalizes another by eating.
It is better not to eat meat, or drink wine, or do anything that your brother trips over.
The faith that you have, have it according to your own conviction before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves.
But he who doubts, if he eats, he condemns himself, because he does not do it by faith; and everything that does not come from faith is sin.