I recommend you to our sister Phoebe, deaconess of the church in Cencrea;
that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you help her in any matter in which she needs you, because she has also helped many and even myself.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my collaborators in Christ Jesus,
who laid down their lives for me, whom I thank not only, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Also greet the church that is in his house. Greet my dear brother Epeneto, who is the first convert to Christ in Asia.
Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and fellow prisoners, who stand out among the apostles and who also came to Christ before me.
Greet Amplias, my dear brother in the Lord.
Greet Urbano, our collaborator in Christ, and my dear brother Estaquis.
Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ. Greet those of Aristobulus' house.
Say hello to Herodion, my relative. Greet those in Narcissus' house, who are from the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, workers of the Lord. Greet dear sister Persida, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Greet Rufo, chosen in the Lord, also his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas and the brothers with them.
Greet Philologist and Julia, Nereo and his sister, and Olimpas and all the saints who are with them.
Greet each other with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
And I beg you, brothers, to watch over those who cause dissension and stumbling against the teachings that you learned, and to stay away from them.
For such are slaves, not of Christ our Lord, but of their own appetites, and by soft and flattering words they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Because the news of your obedience has spread to everyone; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise for good and innocent for evil.
And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy, my collaborator, greets you, and so do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
I, Third, who write this letter, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, host of me and of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and Brother Fourth.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And to him who is powerful to affirm you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that has been kept secret for endless centuries,
but which has now been made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, has been made known to all nations to guide them to obedience of faith,
to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be the glory forever. Amen.