Therefore, justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we also have entrance by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we glory in the hope of the glory of God.
And not only this, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces patience;
and patience, test; and proof, hope;
and hope does not shame, because the love of God has been poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us.
Because Christ, when we were still weak, in due time died for the wicked.
Hardly anyone dies for a righteous man; all in all, it could be that someone dared to die for the good.
But God shows his love for us in that, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Much more now, having been justified by his blood, through him we will be saved from wrath.
Because if as enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being already reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
And not only this, but we also glory in God through the Lord our Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, so death passed to all men, because all sinned.
Because even before the law there was sin in the world; but sin is not taken into account when there is no law.
However, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even in those who did not sin in the manner of Adam's transgression, which is the figure of the one to come.
But the gift is not like transgression. Because if by the transgression of one the many died, the grace and the gift of God for the many more abounded, by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ.
Nor is the gift like his sin; because in truth the judgment came for a single sin for condemnation, but the grace came for many transgressions for justification.
For if by the transgression of one alone death reigned, much more will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ, those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of justice.
So, just as through the transgression of one only came condemnation to all men, so also through the justice of one only came grace to all men for the justification of life.
For just as by the disobedience of one man the many were made sinners, so also by the obedience of one the many will be made righteous.
But the law was introduced so that sin would abound; but when sin abounded, grace did much more abound,
so that just as sin reigned for death, even so grace reigns for justice for eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.