What shall we say, then, that Abraham, our father according to the flesh, found?
Because if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not with God.
Because what does Scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
Now, to the one who works, the salary is not counted as a favor, but as debt;
but to him who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the wicked, his faith is counted for righteousness.
As David also speaks of the blessing that comes upon the man to whom God attributes justice apart from works:
Blessed are those whose iniquities have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered.
Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account.
Is this blessing, then, only for the circumcised, or also for the uncircumcised? Because we say: To Abraham, faith was counted for righteousness.
So how was it counted? Being circumcised or uncircumcised? Not being circumcised, but being uncircumcised;
and he received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness of faith which he had while he was still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness might also be imputed to them;
and father of circumcision for those who are not only circumcised, but also follow in the steps of faith that our father Abraham had when he was uncircumcised.
Because the promise to Abraham or his descendants that he would be heir to the world, was not made through the law, but through the justice of faith.
For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is vain and promise is nullified;
because the law produces anger, but where there is no law, there is also no transgression.
So it is by faith, so that it is in accordance with grace, so that the promise is firm for all posterity, not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, which is the father of all of us
(as it is written: I have made you the father of many nations) before the one in whom he believed, that is, God, who gives life to the dead and calls things that do not exist, as if they existed.
He believed in hope against hope, in order to become the father of many nations, according to what had been said to him: So will your descendants be.
And without weakening his faith, he contemplated his own body, which was already as dead as it was about a hundred years old, and the sterility of Sara's womb;
However, regarding the promise of God, Abraham did not hesitate with unbelief, but strengthened himself in faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully convinced that what God had promised, powerful was also to fulfill it.
Therefore his faith was also counted for righteousness.
And not only for him was it written that it was told to him,
but also for us, to whom it will be counted: as those who believe in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
which was delivered because of our transgressions and resurrected for our justification.