Receive the weak in faith, but not to contend over opinions.
Because you think you can eat anything, and the weak eat only vegetables.
He who eats shall not despise him who does not eat, and he who does not eat should not judge him who eats; because God has received it.
Who are you who judge someone else's servant? To its own lord it stands or falls; but it will be affirmed because the Lord is powerful to affirm him.
While one makes the difference between day and day, another judges the same every day. Each one is convinced in his own mind.
He who listens to the day does it to the Lord. He who eats for the Lord eats, because he thanks God; and he who does not eat, for the Lord does not eat and thanks God.
For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself.
For if we live, we live for the Lord; and if we die, for the Lord we die. So, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's.
For Christ died for this and lived, to be the Lord both of the dead and of those who live.
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you too, why do you look down on your brother? For we will all appear before the judgment seat of God,
for it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, that every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess God [b].
So each of us will be accountable to God for himself.
So, let's not judge each other any more; rather, determine not to stumble or impede the brother.
I know, and I am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean in itself; but for those who consider that something is unclean, for him it is.
For if your brother is grieved because of food, you no longer walk according to love. Do not ruin for your food the one for whom Christ died.
Therefore, do not let anyone speak ill of what is good for you;
because the kingdom of God is not food or drink but justice, peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
Because the one who serves Christ in this, pleases God and is approved by men.
So let us follow what contributes to peace and mutual edification.
Don't destroy God's work because of food. In truth, all things are clean, but it is wrong for a man to stumble over his food.
It's good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything your brother stumbles on.
The faith that you have, have it for yourself before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself with what he approves.
But he who doubts about it is condemned if he eats because he does not eat it in faith. For everything that does not come from faith is sin.