Now, then, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, those who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.
Because the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me from the law of sin and death.
Because what was impossible for the law, because he was weak by the flesh, God, sending his Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin, and because of sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
so that the justice of the law might be fulfilled in us, that we do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.
For those who live according to the flesh are occupied in the things that are of the flesh; but those who live according to the spirit, in the things of the spirit.
Because the carnal spirit is death, but the spiritual spirit is life and peace.
Because the inclination of the flesh is enmity against God, because it is not subject to the law of God, nor can it.
So those who live according to the flesh cannot please God.
But you do not live according to the flesh, but according to the spirit, if the Spirit of God dwells in you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, it is not his.
And if Christ is in you, the body is truly dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of justice.
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies by his Spirit who dwells in you.
So, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, so that we live according to the flesh,
because if you live according to the flesh, you will die; but if by the spirit you put to death the deeds of the flesh, you will live.
For all who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God.
Because you have not received the spirit of servitude to be in fear again, but you have received the spirit of adoption, by which we cry out: Abba, Father!
Because the Spirit himself testifies to our spirit that we are children of God.
And if children, also heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if we suffer together with him, so that together with him we may be glorified.
Because I consider that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory that is to be manifested in us.
Because the deep longing of creation is waiting for the manifestation of the children of God.
Because creation was subjected to vanity, not willingly, but because of the one who held it in hope,
for also creation itself will be delivered from the bondage of corruption to the glorious freedom of the children of God.
Because we know that all creation groans at one, and one suffers labor pains until now.
And not only her, but also ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, we also groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, that is, the redemption of our body.
Because in hope we were saved; but the hope that is seen is no longer hope, because what is seen, why wait for it?
But if we wait for what we don't see, we wait for it with patience.
And likewise, the Spirit also helps us in our weakness, because we do not know what to ask for properly, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with unspeakable groans.
But he who searches hearts knows what the Spirit intends, because he, according to the will of God, intercedes for the saints.
And we know that for those who love God, all things will work together for his good, for those who according to his purpose are called.
For those whom he knew before he also predestined to be made in the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren;
and whom he predestined, he also called; and those whom he called, he also justified; and those whom he justified, these he also glorified.
So what shall we say to this? If God is for us, who can be against us?
He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all, how can he not also give us all things with him?
Who will accuse God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Who is the one who will condemn? Christ is the one who died; furthermore, he who was also raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
As it is written: Because of you we are dead all the time; we are considered as slaughterhouse sheep.
Rather, in all these things we are more than conquerors through the one who loved us.
Therefore I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor the present, nor the future,
neither the high, nor the deep, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God, who is in Christ Jesus, our Lord