Paul, servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle: set apart for the gospel of God,
that he had promised before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures,
about his Son — who, according to the flesh, was of David's seed;
and who was declared the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead— Jesus Christ our Lord.
Through him we receive the grace and the apostolate for the obedience of the faith in favor of his name in all nations,
among which are also you, the called of Jesus Christ.
To all who are in Rome, loved by God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First of all, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed throughout the world.
Because God, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of his Son, is a witness to me that without ceasing I always remember you in my prayers
praying that, if somehow by the will of God, I am finally on the right path to come to you.
Because I want to see you to share with you some spiritual gift so that they are affirmed.
That is, to be encouraged together with you by the faith that is common to you and me.
But I do not want, brothers, to ignore that many times I have proposed to come to you (and until now I have been prevented) to have some fruit also among you as well as among the other nations.
Both Greeks and barbarians, both wise and ignorant I am a debtor.
So, as for me, I am soon to announce the gospel to you also in Rome.
Because I am not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes; to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
For in him the righteousness of God is revealed by faith and for faith as it is written: But the just shall live by faith [a].
For the wrath of God manifests from heaven against all ungodliness and injustice of men who unjustly hold back the truth.
Because what is known of God is evident among them because God made it evident.
Because the invisible of him - his eternal power and deity - is visible from the creation of the world, being understood in created things so that they have no excuse.
Because having known God, they did not glorify him as God nor did they thank him; rather, their reasoning became futile, and their foolish heart was darkened.
Professing themselves to be wise they became fools
and they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the likeness of corruptible man, of birds, of quadrupeds and of reptiles.
Therefore, God gave them over to impurity, in the passions of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies among themselves.
They exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshiped and worshiped creation rather than the Creator who is blessed forever! Amen.
For this cause, God gave them over to shameful passions; for his women exchanged natural relationships for relationships against nature.
In the same way, also men, leaving natural relationships with women, flared up in their disordered passions with each other, committing shameful acts men with men and receiving in themselves the retribution that corresponds to their loss.
Since they did not approve of taking God into account, God gave them up to a reprobate mind to do what is not due.
They have been filled with all injustice, wickedness, greed, and wickedness. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, bad intention.
They are contentious, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to their parents,
foolish, disloyal, cruel [b] and without mercy.
Despite the fact that they recognize the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do them but also delight in those who practice them.