Therefore, brethren, I beg you by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your rational worship.
And do not adapt to this world, but transform yourself by renewing your mind, so that you can verify what is the will of God: what is good, acceptable and perfect.
Because by virtue of the grace that has been given to me, I tell each one of you not to think more highly of yourself than you should think, but to think with good judgment, according to the measure of faith that God has distributed to each one .
Well just as in a body we have many members, but not all members have the same function,
thus we, who are many, are one body in Christ and individually members of one another.
But having gifts that differ, according to the grace that has been given to us, let us use them: if that of prophecy, be used in proportion to faith;
if the service, in serving; or he who teaches, in teaching;
he who exhorts, in exhortation; the one who gives, liberally; the one who directs, diligently; the one who shows mercy, with joy.
Love be without hypocrisy; hating the bad, applying yourself to the good.
Be affectionate with one another with brotherly love; with honor, give preference to one another;
do not be lazy in what requires diligence; fervent in spirit, serving the Lord,
rejoicing in hope, persevering in suffering, dedicated to prayer,
contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep.
Have the same feeling with each other; do not be haughty in your thinking, but condescending with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion.
Never pay anyone wrong for wrong. Respect good in front of all men.
If possible, as far as you depend, be at peace with all men.
Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but give place to the wrath of God, because it is written: Mia is revenge, I will pay, says the Lord.
But if your enemy is hungry, feed him; and if he is thirsty, give him a drink, because by doing this, burning coals you will pile on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.