I speak the truth in Christ; I do not lie. My conscience bears witness with me in the Holy Spirit
that I have great sadness and continuous pain in my heart:
because I would like to be separated from Christ for the sake of my brothers, who are my relatives according to the flesh.
They are Israelites of whom are the adoption, the glory, the covenants [a], the promulgation of the law, the worship and the promises.
Of them are the patriarchs; and from them, according to the flesh, comes the Christ, who is God above all things, blessed for ever [b]. Amen.
It is not that the word of God has failed; because not all born of Israel are from Israel,
nor because they are descendants of Abraham are they all his sons, but in Isaac your descendants will be called [c].
This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God; rather, the children of promise are counted as offspring.
For the word of promise is this: By this time I will come, and Sarah will have a son [d].
And not only this, but also when Rebekah conceived of a man, of Isaac our father,
and although his children had not yet been born nor had they done right or wrong - so that God's purpose depended on his choice,
not of works but of the one who calls—, she was told: "The greatest will serve the least" [e],
as it is written: I loved Jacob, but I hated Esau [f].
What shall we say then? Is there injustice in God? [G]. No way!
Because he says to Moses: I will have mercy on those who have mercy, and I will have pity on those who pity me [h].
Therefore, it does not depend on the one who wants or on the one who runs, but on God who has mercy.
Because the Scripture says to Pharaoh: For this very reason I raised you up, to show you my power and so that my name is proclaimed throughout the whole earth [i].
So whoever he wants has mercy; but whoever he wants, he hardens.
Then you will say to me: "Why do you still blame him? Because who has resisted his will?"
First of all, oh man, who are you to contradict God? Will the formed glass say to the one who formed it: "Why did you make me like this?"
Or does the potter have no authority over the clay to make of the same mass a glass for honorable use and another for common use?
And what if God, wanting to show His anger and make His power known, patiently endured the vessels of anger that have been prepared for destruction?
And what if he did this to make known the riches of his glory upon the vessels of mercy that he had prepared beforehand for glory,
whom have you also called, that is, us, not only among the Jews but also among the Gentiles?
As Hosea also says: I will call my people not my people, and the unloved beloved.
And it will be that, in the place where they were told: "You are not my people", there they will be called children of the living God [j].
Isaiah also proclaims regarding Israel: Although the number of the children of Israel is like the sand of the sea, the remnant will be saved.
For the Lord will execute his word quickly and vigorously [k] on earth [l].
And as Isaiah said before: If the Lord of Hosts had not left us offspring, we would have become like Sodom and we would be similar to Gomorrah [m].
What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who were not after justice, achieved justice — that is, justice that comes from faith—
while Israel, which was after the law of justice, did not reach the law.
Why? Because it was not by faith, but by works [n]. They stumbled on the stumbling block,
as it is written: Behold, I lay on Zion a stumbling stone and a rock of scandal; And whoever believes in him will not be ashamed.