For which you have no excuse, oh man, whoever you are who judges; because in what you judge another, you condemn yourself, because you do the same, you who judge.
But we know that God's judgment against those who do such things is according to the truth.
And do you think this, O man, that you judge those who do such things, and you do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you belittle the riches of his goodness, and patience, and long-suffering, ignoring that his goodness guides you to repentance?
But for your hardness, and for your unrepentant heart, you treasure anger for yourself for the day of wrath and of the revelation of God's just judgment,
who will pay each one according to their works:
eternal life to those who persevere in doing good and seek glory, and honor and immortality.
But to those who are contentious, and do not obey the truth, rather they obey injustice: anger and wrath.
And tribulation and anguish over every human being who does evil, the Jew first, and also the Greek,
but glory and honor and peace to all who do good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
Because there is no meaning of people towards God.
For all who have sinned without law will also perish without law; and all who have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;
for it is not the hearers of the law that are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified.
For the Gentiles who have no law naturally do what is of the law; these, although they do not have a law, are law for themselves,
for they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, while their thoughts accuse or excuse them;
on the day that God will judge the secrets of men through Jesus Christ, according to my gospel.
Behold, you who bear the name of a Jew, and lean on the law, and boast in God,
and you know his will and, instructed by the law, you approve the best,
and you trust that you are the guide of the blind, the light of those who are in darkness,
instructor of those who do not know, teacher of children, that you have in the law the form of science and truth.
You, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that it is not to be stolen, do you steal?
You who say that adultery should not be committed, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you commit sacrilege?
You who boast of the law, do you dishonor God by breaking the law?
For the name of God is blasphemed because of you among the Gentiles, as it is written.
Because circumcision really benefits, if you keep the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
So if the uncircumcised keeps the ordinances of the law, will his uncircumcision by circumcision not be taken into account?
And he who is physically uncircumcised, but perfectly keeps the law, will judge you, who with the letter and with circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is done outwardly in the flesh;
but he is a Jew who is one within, and circumcision is that of the heart, in spirit, not in letter; the praise of which is not of men, but of God.