Do you not know, brothers (because I speak with those who know the law), that the law rules over the man while he lives?
Because the woman who has a husband, while the husband lives is bound to it by the law; But when the husband is dead, he is free from the law of the husband.
So while her husband lives, if she joins another man, she will call herself an adulteress; but if her husband dies, she is free from that law, so that if she joins another husband, she will not be an adulteress.
In the same way, my brothers, you have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may be of another, that is, of the one who rose from the dead, so that we may bear fruit for God.
Because while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were by law, acted on our members bearing fruit for death.
But now we are free from the law, having died for the law in which we were subject, so that we serve in newness of spirit, and not in the old of the letter.
What shall we say then? Is the law a sin? No way! But I did not know sin except by law, and I would not have known lust, if the law did not say: You will not covet.
But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, produced in me all lust; because without the law sin is dead.
So, without the law I lived for a time; But when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died.
And I found that the commandment, which was for life, was death to me;
for sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and for it killed me.
So the law is indeed holy, and the commandment is holy, and just, and good.
So what is good became death to me? Not; but that sin, to show itself as sin, by what is good produced death in me, so that, through the commandment, sin would become extremely sinful.
Because we know that the law is spiritual; but I am carnal, sold into slavery to sin.
Because what I do, I don't understand, nor do I do what I want; rather, what I abhor, I do.
And if I do what I don't want, I approve that the law is good.
So it is no longer I who does that, but the sin that dwells in me.
And I know that in me (that is, in my flesh) good does not dwell, because wanting good is in me, but not doing it.
Because I don't do the good I want, but the bad I don't want, that's what I do.
And if I do what I don't want, I don't do it anymore, but the sin that lives in me.
So, wanting to do good, I find this law: That evil is in me.
Because according to the inner man, I delight in the law of God;
But I see another law in my members, that rebels against the law of my mind, and that takes me captive to the law of sin that is in my members.
Wretched me! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
Thank you I give to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with the flesh the law of sin.