For which you have no excuse, oh man, whoever you are who judges, because when you judge another, you condemn yourself, because you who judge practice the same things.
And we know that God's judgment justly falls on those who practice such things.
And do you think this, O man, you who condemn those who practice such things and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you have little regard for the riches of his goodness, tolerance and patience, ignoring that God's goodness guides you to repentance?
But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are accumulating anger for yourself in the day of wrath and the revelation of God's righteous judgment,
which will pay each one according to his works:
those who, by perseverance in doing good, seek glory, honor and immortality: eternal life;
But those who are ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey injustice: anger and indignation.
There will be tribulation and anguish for every human soul that does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek;
but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first, and also the Greek.
Because in God there is no meaning of persons.
For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law; and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law;
for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but those who keep the law, they will be justified.
Because when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, instinctively follow the dictates of the law, they, not having the law, are a law to themselves,
since they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience giving testimony, and their thoughts accusing them sometimes and others defending them,
on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus.
But if you, who carry the name of a Jew and rely on the law; that you glory in God,
and you know his will; that you approve of things that are essential, being instructed by law,
and you trust that you are the guide of the blind, light of those who are in darkness,
instructor of fools, teacher of the immature; that you have in the law the very expression of knowledge and truth;
you, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
You who say that adultery should not be committed, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you plunder temples?
You who boast of the law, by violating the law do you dishonor God?
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written.
For circumcision is certainly of value if you practice the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
Therefore, if the uncircumcised meets the requirements of the law, will his uncircumcision not be considered circumcision?
And if he who is physically uncircumcised keeps the law, will he not judge you, that although you have the letter of the law and are circumcised, you are a transgressor of the law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision external, in the flesh;
but he is a Jew who is inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; the praise of which does not come from men, but from God.