Welcome the weak in faith, but not to contend over opinions.
Because you think you have to eat everything; another, who is weak, eats only legumes.
Let not him who eats despise him who does not eat; and he who does not eat, do not judge him who eats, because God has accepted him.
You, who are you, who judge another's servant? To its own lord it stands, or falls; but it will be established, because the Lord is powerful to affirm him.
You make a difference between day and day; another judges the same every day. Each one is fully convinced in his opinion.
He who heeds the day does it for the Lord; and whoever ignores the day does not pay attention to the Lord. He who eats eats for the Lord, because he thanks God; and he who does not eat does not eat for the Lord, and gives thanks to God.
For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself.
If we live, for the Lord we live; and if we die, for the Lord we die. So, whether we live, or die, we are the Lord's.
For Christ died for this, and rose again and lived again, to be Lord of both the dead and the living.
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you too, why do you look down on your brother? For we will all appear before the Judgment Seat of Christ.
For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, that every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess God.
So each of us will give an account of himself to God.
So, let's not judge each other any more; Rather, decide not to stumble or impede your brother.
I know, and I trust in the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean in itself; but for the one who thinks that something is unclean, for him it is unclean.
But if your brother is grieved because of food, you no longer walk according to charity. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died.
Don't let bad things be talked about,
for the kingdom of God is not food or drink, but justice, and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost.
For whoever serves Christ in this, pleases God, and is approved by men.
So, let us follow what leads to peace, and to building one another.
Don't destroy God's work because of food. All things are truly clean; but it is bad for a man to eat something that causes another to stumble.
It is good not to eat meat, or drink wine, or anything your brother stumbles on, or is offended or weakened.
Do you have faith? Keep it with you before God. Blessed is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves.
But he who doubts what he eats is condemned, because he did not eat by faith; and everything that is not by faith is sin.