Now then, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus [a],
for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has delivered me from the law of sin and death.
Because God did what was impossible for the law, because she was weak by the flesh: Having sent his own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and because of sin, he condemned sin in the flesh
so that the just demand of the law would be fulfilled in us that we do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
For those who live according to the flesh think of the things of the flesh; but those who live according to the Spirit, in the things of the Spirit.
Because the intention of the flesh is death, but the intention of the Spirit is life and peace.
For the intention of the flesh is enmity against God; because it is not subject to the law of God nor can it.
So those who live according to the flesh cannot please God.
However, you do not live according to the flesh but according to the Spirit, if the Spirit of God dwells in you. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, it is not his.
But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, nevertheless the spirit lives because of justice.
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
So, brothers, we are debtors, but not to the flesh so that we live according to the flesh.
For if they live according to the flesh, they must die; but if by the Spirit they put to death the practices of the flesh, they will live.
For all who are led by the Spirit of God, these are children of God.
For they did not receive the spirit of slavery to be under fear again, but they received the spirit of adoption as children, in which we cry out: "Abba, Father!".
The Spirit himself testifies together with our spirit that we are children of God.
And if we are children, we are also heirs: heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if we suffer together with him, so that together with him we may be glorified.
Because I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worthy to compare with the glory that is soon to be revealed to us.
For the creation awaits with ardent longing the manifestation of the children of God.
Because creation has been subjected to vanity, not by its own will but because of the one who subjected it, in hope
that even creation itself will be delivered from the bondage of corruption to enter the glorious freedom of the children of God.
Because we know that all creation groans at one, and one suffers labor pains until now.
And not only creation but also we, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, moan within ourselves awaiting adoption as children, the redemption of our body.
Because we were saved with hope; but a hope that is seen is not hope, because who keeps waiting for what he already sees? [b].
But if we wait for what we do not see, with perseverance we wait for it.
And likewise, the Spirit also helps us in our weaknesses; Because we don't know how we should pray but the Spirit himself intercedes with unspeakable groans.
And he who searches hearts knows what is the intention of the Spirit, because he intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
And we know that God makes all things work together for good to those who love him; that is, to those who are called according to their purpose.
We know that he also predestined those he knew before so that they would be made according to the image of his Son so that he would be the firstborn among many brothers.
And those whom he predestined, he also called; and those whom he called, he also justified; and those whom he justified, these he also glorified.
What then shall we say in the face of these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how can he not also freely give us all things with him?
Who will accuse God's elect? He who justifies is God.
Who is the one who will condemn? Christ is the one who died; moreover, he is the one who also rose again; who, moreover, is at the right hand of God, and who also intercedes for us.
Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
As it is written: Because of you we are dead all the time; we were estimated as sheep for the slaughterhouse [c].
Rather, in all these things we are more than conquerors through the one who loved us.
Therefore I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor the present nor the future nor powers
neither the high nor the deep nor any other created thing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord.