Brothers (do I speak to those who know the law), do you not know that the law rules over man while he lives?
Because a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives; but if her husband dies she is free from the law of the husband.
Therefore, if she unites with another man while her husband lives, she will be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law; And if she joins another husband, she is not an adulteress.
In a similar way, my brothers, you too have died to the law through the body of Christ to be united with another, the same one who rose from the dead, so that we may bear fruit for God.
For while we lived in the flesh the sinful passions awakened through the law acted on our members in order to bear fruit for death.
But now, having died to what had us subject, we have been released from the law so that we serve in the new of the Spirit and not in the old of the letter.
What shall we say then? That the law is sin? No way! On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law; because I would not be aware of greed if the law did not say: You will not covet [a].
But sin, taking occasion in the commandment, produced in me all greed; because without the law sin is dead.
So, I lived in a time without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died.
And I discovered that the same commandment that was for life resulted in death
for sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and for it killed me.
So the law is certainly holy; and the commandment is holy, just, and good.
Then what is good became death to me? No way! Rather, sin, to show itself to be sin, through the good produced death in me so that, through the commandment, sin would become exceedingly sinful.
Because we know that the law is spiritual; but I am carnal, sold to the subjection of sin.
Because what I do I do not understand, because I do not practice what I want; on the contrary, what I abhor, I do.
And since I do what I don't want, I agree that the law is good.
So it is no longer I who do it but the sin that dwells in me.
I know that in me — namely, in my flesh — good does not dwell. Because wanting good is in me, but not doing it.
Because I don't do the good I want but, on the contrary, the bad I don't want, I practice that.
And if I do what I do not want, I no longer do it but the sin that lives in me.
Therefore, I find this law: Although I want to do good, evil is present in me.
Because according to the inner man, I delight in the law of God;
But I see in my members a different law that fights against the law of my mind and chains me with the law of sin that is in my members.
Wretched man of me! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So I myself with my mind serve the law of God; but with the flesh, to the law of sin.