Brothers, certainly the longing of my heart, and my prayer to God for Israel, is for salvation.
Because I testify to you that you are zealous for God, but not according to knowledge.
Because ignoring the justice of God, and seeking to establish their own, they have not submitted to the justice of God.
For the end of the law is Christ, for righteousness to everyone who believes.
Because Moses describes the righteousness that is by law: The man who does these things will live by them.
But the righteousness that is by faith says thus: Do not say in your heart: Who will ascend to heaven? (that is, to bring Christ from above);
Or, who will descend into the abyss? (that is, to raise Christ from the dead).
But what does it say? The word is near, in your mouth and in your heart. This is the word of faith that we preach:
If you confess the Lord Jesus with your mouth, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
Because with the heart one believes for justice, but with the mouth confession is made for salvation.
For the Scripture says: Everyone who believes in him will not be ashamed.
Because there is no difference between Jew and Greek, because the same who is Lord of all, is rich towards all those who invoke him;
for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without a preacher?
And how will they preach if they are not sent? As it is written: How beautiful are the feet of those who proclaim the gospel of peace, of those who announce the gospel of the good news!
But not everyone obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says: Lord, who has believed our announcement?
So faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
But I say: have you not heard? Rather, their voices have gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the earth.
Furthermore I say: Has Israel not understood this? First of all Moses says: I will provoke you to jealousy with a people who are not a people; with a foolish people I will provoke you to anger.
And Isaiah boldly says: I was found by those who did not seek me; I manifested myself to those who did not ask for me.
But about Israel he says: All day long I extended my hands to a rebellious and disobedient people.