What shall we say then that Abraham, our ancestor according to the flesh, has found?
Because if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God.
Well what does Scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness [a].
To the one who works, the salary is not considered as grace but as obligation.
But whoever does not act but believes in him who justifies the wicked, his faith is considered righteousness.
In the same way, David also proclaims the happiness of the man to whom God confers justice without works,
saying: Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will never take his sin into account [b].
Then, is this happiness only for those of the circumcision, or is it also for those of the uncircumcision? For we say: Abraham was counted his faith for righteousness [c].
How was it counted? Is he circumcised or uncircumcised? It was not in circumcision but in uncircumcision.
He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the justice of the faith that he had while he was still uncircumcised so that he would be the father of all uncircumcised believers —so that justice would be conferred on them too;
and father of circumcision, of those who are not only circumcised but also follow in the footsteps of faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.
Because the promise to Abraham and his descendants, that he would be heir to the world, was not given through the law but through the justice of faith.
Because if the heirs are those who are based on the law, faith has been made useless and the promise invalidated.
Because the law produces anger; but where there is no law there is also no transgression.
For this reason, he comes from faith so that it may be according to grace, so that the promise is firm for all his descendants. Not for the one who is only of the law but also for the one who is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
—As it is written: I have put you as father of many nations [d] - before God, whom he believed, who vivifies the dead and calls things that do not exist as if they existed.
Abraham believed against all hope, so that he became the father of many nations [e], according to what had been said to him: Thus will be your offspring [f].
Without weakening his faith, he took into account [g] his already dead body (since he was almost one hundred years old) and Sara's dead womb.
But he did not doubt God's promise for lack of faith. On the contrary, he was strengthened in his faith by giving glory to God,
fully convinced that God, who had promised, was powerful to do so.
For this reason it was counted for justice [h].
But not only for him it was written that it was told
but also for us (to whom it should be told), those of us who believe in God who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
who was delivered because of our transgressions and risen for our justification.