What shall we say then? Will we remain in sin so that grace may abound?
No way! How can we who have died to sin still live in it?
Do they not know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
For by baptism we were buried together with him in death so that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we too may walk in newness of life.
For just as we have been identified with him in the likeness of his death, we will also be so in the likeness of his resurrection.
And we know that our old man was crucified together with him, so that the body of sin may be destroyed so that we are no longer slaves to sin;
for he who has died has been justified from sin.
If we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.
We know that Christ, once raised from the dead, no longer dies; death no longer lords over him.
Because as soon as he died, for sin he died once for all; but as soon as he lives, he lives for God.
So you also consider that you are dead to sin but that you are alive to God in Christ Jesus.
So do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey your evil desires.
Nor do you present your members to sin as instruments of injustice but, rather, present yourselves to God as living from the dead, and your members to God as instruments of justice.
For sin will not rule over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
So? Will we sin because we are not under law but under grace? No way!
Do you not know that when you offer yourselves to obey him as slaves you are slaves to the one who obeys; be it from sin for death or obedience for justice?
But thank God because, although they were slaves of sin, they have obeyed from the heart that form of teaching to which they have given themselves.
and, once freed from sin, they have been made servants of justice.
I speak to you in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as they presented their members as slaves to ever greater impurity and wickedness, so now present their members as slaves to justice for holiness.
Because when they were slaves of sin they were free in regard to justice.
What reward, then, did they have for those things of which they are now ashamed? Because the end of them is death.
But now, free from sin and made servants of God, they have as their reward sanctification and, at last, eternal life.
Because the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord.