So, brothers, I beg you by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing to God, which is your reasonable service.
And do not adapt to this world, but transform yourself through the renewal of your understanding, so that you may verify what is the good will of God, pleasant and perfect.
I say, therefore, by the grace that is given to me, to each one who is among you, that you have no higher self-concept than what you should have, but think of yourself with sanity, according to the measure of faith that God distributed each one.
Because in the same way that in a single body we have many members, but not all members have the same function,
so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and all members of one another.
So, having different gifts, according to the grace given to us, if that of prophecy, be used according to the measure of faith;
or if of service, in serving; or he who teaches, in teaching;
he who exhorts, in exhortation; He who distributes, do it with simplicity; he who presides, diligently; He who shows mercy, with joy.
Let love be without dissimulation; Hate what is evil, be close to what is good;
love one another with brotherly charity, preferring each other with honor;
in what requires diligence, not lazy; fervent in spirit, serving the Lord;
rejoicing in hope; suffered in tribulation; constants in prayer;
sharing for the needs of the saints; practicing hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep.
Unanimous among you; not haughty, but associating with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion.
Pay no one evil for evil; Seek what is good before all men.
If possible, as far as it depends on you, have peace with all men.
Do not avenge yourselves, my beloveds; but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written: Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.
So if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; because doing this, you will pile up embers of fire on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.