What advantage, then, does the Jew have? Or what use is circumcision?
Much, in every way. Mainly because the words of God were entrusted to them.
So what if some of them have been unbelievers? Has your unbelief nullified the truth of God?
No way; rather be God truthful, and every man a liar. As it is written: That you may be justified in your words, and overcome when you are judged.
And if our injustice highlights God's justice, what will we say? Will God who punishes be unjust? (I speak as a man).
No way, because otherwise, how would God judge the world?
But if by my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I still judged as a sinner?
And why not say (as we are slandered, and as some claim that we say): Let us do evil so that good may come? The condemnation of such is just.
So? Are we better than they? No way; Because we have already verified that both Jews and Gentiles are all under sin.
As it is written: There is no one righteous, not even one;
there is no one who understands, there is no one who seeks God.
They all strayed, one became useless; there is no one who does good, there is not even one.
Open grave is his throat; they deceive with their tongue; Aspic venom is under his lips;
whose mouth is full of curse and bitterness;
his feet are swift to spill blood;
destruction and misery are in their ways;
and they did not know the way to peace.
There is no fear of God before your eyes.
Now, we know that everything that the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth is closed and everyone is under the judgment of God;
for by the works of the law no flesh will be justified before him, for through the law is the knowledge of sin.
But now, apart from the law, the justice of God has been manifested, attested by the law and by the prophets;
God's justice through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe in him. Because there is no difference,
for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
whom God put as a propitiation through faith in his blood, to manifest his justice, having overlooked, in his patience, past sins,
with the aim of manifesting his justice at this time, so that he is the just one, and the one who justifies the one who is of the faith of Jesus.
Where, then, is boasting? It is excluded. By what law? Because of the works? No, but by the law of faith.
So, we conclude that man is justified by faith without the works of the law.
Is God the only God of the Jews? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, also of the Gentiles.
For God is one, and he will justify circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.
Do we then nullify the law by faith? No way; rather, we establish the law.