What shall we say then? Will we continue in sin so that grace may abound?
No way! We who have died to sin, how will we still live in it?
Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death?
Therefore, we have been buried with Him through baptism to the death, so that as Christ rose from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we too may walk in newness of life.
For if we have been united to Him in the likeness of His death, we will certainly be so also in the likeness of His resurrection,
knowing this, that our old man was crucified with Him, so that our body of sin would be destroyed, so that we would no longer be slaves of sin;
for he who has died has been freed from sin.
And if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
knowing that Christ, having risen from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over Him.
Because as soon as He died, he died to sin once for all; but as soon as he lives, he lives for God.
Likewise you, consider yourselves dead for sin, but alive for God in Christ Jesus.
Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you do not obey its lusts;
neither present the members of your body to sin as instruments of iniquity, but present yourselves to God as living from the dead, and your members to God as instruments of justice.
For sin will not have dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
So what? Will we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? No way!
Do you not know that when you present yourselves as slaves to obey him, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, whether of sin for death, or of obedience for justice?
But thank God, that although you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered;
and having been freed from sin, you have become servants of justice.
I speak in human terms, because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and iniquity, for iniquity, so now present your members as slaves to justice, for sanctification.
Because when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to justice.
What fruit did you have then in those things of which you are now ashamed? Because the end of those things is death.
But now, having been freed from sin and made servants of God, you have by your fruit sanctification, and as a result eternal life.
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.