So, brethren, I beg you for the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, which is your rational worship.
Do not conform to this world; Rather, transform yourselves by renewing your understanding so that you will see what is the will of God, good, pleasant, and perfect.
I say, therefore, to each one of you by the grace that has been given to me, that no one has a higher self-concept than what they should have; Rather, let him think sensibly, according to the measure of faith that God distributed to each one.
Because in the same way that in a single body we have many members but all the members do not have the same function,
so we, being many, are one body in Christ but we are all members of each other.
So we have gifts that vary according to the grace that has been granted to us: If it is of prophecy, use it according to the measure of faith;
if it is of service, in serving; he who teaches, use it in teaching;
he who exhorts, in exhortation; the one who shares, liberally; he who presides, diligently; and he who shows mercy, with joy.
Love be without pretense, abhorring the bad and adhering to the good:
loving each other with brotherly love; as for honor, preferring each other;
not being lazy in what requires diligence; being ardent in spirit, serving the Lord;
joyful in hope, patient in tribulation, constant in prayer;
sharing for the needs of the saints; practicing hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
Enjoy yourself with those who rejoice. Cry with those who cry.
Have the same feeling for each other, not being haughty but accommodating the humble. Don't be wise in your own opinion.
Do not pay anyone evil for evil. Seek that which is good before all men.
If possible, as far as it depends on you, have peace with all men.
Beloved, do not avenge yourselves but leave room for the wrath of God [a], because it is written: Vengeance is mine; I will pay [b], says the Lord.
Rather, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; and if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for by doing this you will pile burning coals on his head [c].
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.