So those of us who are stronger must bear the weaknesses of the weak and not please ourselves.
Each of us pleases his neighbor for good, with a view to building.
Because Christ did not please himself; rather, as it is written: The insults of those who reproached you fell on me [a].
For what was written above was written for our teaching so that through perseverance and the exhortation of the Scriptures we may have hope.
And the God of perseverance and exhortation grant you to have the same feelings for each other according to Christ Jesus
so that, unanimous and with one voice, they may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, receive one another as Christ received you for the glory of God.
So I say that Christ was made a minister of circumcision in favor of God's truth to confirm the promises made to the patriarchs,
and so that the nations glorify God by the mercy, as it is written: Therefore, I will confess to you between the nations, and I will sing to your name [b].
And again he says: Rejoice, nations, with your people [c].
And again: Praise the Lord, all nations; and exalt him, all peoples [d].
And again Isaiah says: The root of Jesse will come, and the one who will rise to rule the nations; and the nations will wait for him [e].
May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
But I myself am persuaded of you, my brothers, that you too are full of goodness, full of all knowledge, in such a way that you can advise each other.
But quite boldly I have written to remind you of certain matters. I do this because of the grace that has been given to me by God
to be minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, exercising the sacred service of the gospel of God; and this, in order that the offering of the Gentiles may be well received, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
So I have something to boast about in Christ Jesus in things that refer to God.
For I would not dare speak of anything that Christ has not done through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed,
with the power of signs and wonders, with the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem to the surroundings of the Illyrian [f] I have filled everything with the gospel of Christ.
In this way I have tried to preach the gospel where Christ was not named so as not to build on another's foundation
but, as it is written: Those who have never been told about him will see, and those who have not heard will understand [g].
For this reason, I have been prevented many times from coming to you;
but now, having no more place in these regions and having for many years the great desire to come to you,
I will when I travel to Spain. Because I hope to see you in passing and be directed by you there, once I have enjoyed something with you.
But now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints.
For Macedonia and Achaia saw fit to make an offering to the poor from among the saints in Jerusalem.
Well, it seemed good to them, and they are debtors to them; for if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual goods, they must also serve them with their material goods.
So, when this has been concluded and I have officially delivered this fruit to you, I will come to Spain for you.
And I know that when I come to you I will come with the abundance of Christ's blessing.
But I beg you, brothers, for our Lord Jesus Christ and for the love of the Spirit, to fight with me in prayer for me before God
that I may be delivered from the disobedient who are in Judea, and that my service to Jerusalem may be liked by the saints
so that when I come to you with joy by the will of God, I will find rest with you.
And the God of peace be with you all. Amen.