Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, those who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
Because the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death.
For what the law could not do, since he was weak because of the flesh, God did: sending his own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and as a sin offering, he condemned sin in the flesh,
so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, that we do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit on the things of the Spirit.
For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace;
since the mind set on the flesh is the enemy of God, because it is not subject to the law of God, because it cannot even do it,
and those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
However, you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not His.
And if Christ is in you, even though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of justice.
But if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, the same one who raised Christ Jesus from the dead, he will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
So, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh,
because if you live according to the meat, you will have to die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
For all who are led by the Spirit of God, such are children of God.
For you have not received a spirit of slavery to return to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as children, by which we cry out: Abba, Father!
The Spirit himself testifies to our spirit that we are children of God,
and if children, also heirs; heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if in truth we suffer with Him so that we too may be glorified with Him.
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us.
Because the deep longing of creation is anxiously awaiting the revelation of the children of God.
Because creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but because of the one who submitted it, in hope
that creation itself will also be delivered from the bondage of corruption to the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Well we know that the whole creation moans and suffers labor pains until now.
And not only her, but also ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within, anxiously awaiting the adoption as children, the redemption of our body.
Because in hope we have been saved, but the hope that is seen is not hope, so why wait what you see?
But if we wait for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.
And in the same way, the Spirit also helps us in our weakness; because we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with unspeakable groans;
and he who searches hearts knows what the Spirit feels, because He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, that is, for those who are called according to his purpose.
For those whom he knew beforehand, he also predestined to be made according to the image of his Son, so that he be the firstborn among many brothers;
and those whom he predestined, he also called; and those whom he called, he also justified; and those whom he justified, those he also glorified.
So what shall we say to this? If God is for us, who will be against us?
He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for all of us, how can he not also grant us all things with him?
Who will accuse God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who died, yes, even more, the one who rose, the one who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
As it is written: BECAUSE OF YOU, WE ARE POSTED TO DEATH ALL DAY; WE ARE CONSIDERED AS SHEEP FOR THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
But in all these things we are more than conquerors through the one who loved us.
Because I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor the present, nor the future, nor the powers,
neither the high, nor the deep, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.