What shall we say then that Abraham our father found according to the flesh?
Because if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not with God.
Because what does Scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
But to the one who works, the salary is not counted as grace, but as debt.
But to him who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the wicked, his faith is counted for righteousness.
As David also speaks of the bliss of the man to whom God attributes righteousness without works,
saying: Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has no regard for sin.
So is this bliss only for those of the circumcision, or also for those of the uncircumcision? Because we say that Abraham's faith was counted for righteousness.
How, then, was it counted? Being in circumcision, or uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
And he received circumcision as a sign, as a seal of the righteousness of faith which he had while still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all uncircumcised believers, that they might also be accounted for righteousness;
and father of circumcision, not only for those who are circumcised, but also for those who follow in the footsteps of faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.
For the promise that he would be heir to the world was not given to Abraham, or to his seed, by the law, but by the righteousness of faith.
For if those who are of the law are the heirs, faith is vain, and the promise nullified.
Because the law produces anger, but where there is no law, there is also no transgression.
Therefore, the promise is by faith, so that it may be by grace, so that it may be firm for all the offspring, not only for that which is of the law, but also for that which is of the faith of Abraham, who he is the father of all of us
(as it is written: I have made you the father of many nations) before God, whom he believed; He who gives life to the dead, and calls things that are not, as if they were.
He believed in hope against hope, to become the father of many nations, according to what had been said to him: Thus will your descendants be.
And he did not weaken in faith or consider his body, already dead (being almost a hundred years old), nor Sara's womb dead;
nor did he doubt God's promise in unbelief; rather, he was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God,
fully convinced that God was also powerful to do all that he had promised.
Therefore his faith was also counted for righteousness.
And not only with respect to him it was written that it was told to him,
but also with respect to us, to whom it is to be told, that is, to those who believe in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
which was delivered for our transgressions, and resurrected for our justification.