Therefore, I ask: Did God reject his people? No way! For I myself am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
God did not reject his people, whom he knew beforehand. Or do you not know what the Scriptures say in the case of Elijah when he complained to God against Israel? He says:
Lord, they have killed your prophets and knocked down your altars; and I am left alone, and they try to take my life [a].
But what does the divine response tell you? I have left for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed their knees before Baal [b].
So also, in this present time a remnant has been raised according to the election of grace.
And if it is by grace, it does not proceed from works; otherwise, grace would no longer be grace [c].
So? What Israel seeks, it did not achieve, but the elect did achieve it; and the others were hardened,
as it is written: God gave them a spirit of amazement, eyes not to see, and ears not to hear [d], to this day.
And David says: Let their table become a trap and a net, a stumbling block and retribution for them.
Let his eyes darken so as not to see, and make his back bend forever [e].
So I ask: Did they stumble so that they fell? No way! Rather, with their transgression has come salvation to the Gentiles so that they may be jealous.
And if their transgression is the wealth of the world and their failure is the wealth of the Gentiles, how much more will their full restoration be!
And to you, the Gentiles, I say: Because I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I honor my ministry
just in case I can somehow make my flesh jealous and save some of them.
Because if their exclusion results in the reconciliation of the world, what will be their readmission if not life from the dead!
If the scoop is holy, so is the whole mass; and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
And if some of the branches were cut off and you, being a wild olive tree, have been grafted between them and have been partakers of the root —that is, of the abundant sap of the olive tree—
don't brag against the other branches. But even if you boast against them, it is not you who support the root but the root to you.
Then you will say: "The branches were cut off so that I could be grafted in."
It's okay; because of their disbelief they were torn apart. But you by your faith are firm. Do not be arrogant but fear;
because if God did not forgive the natural branches, He will not forgive you either.
Consider, then, the goodness and severity of God: severity certainly for those who fell; but goodness to you, if you remain in his goodness. Otherwise, you too will be cut off.
And they too, if they do not remain in unbelief, will be grafted in; because God is powerful to graft them again.
Well, if you were cut from the wild olive tree and, against nature, you were grafted onto the good olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted onto your own olive tree!
Brethren, lest you be wise in your own mind, I do not want you to ignore this mystery: that hardening has happened in part to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has entered.
And thus all Israel will be saved, as it is written: The deliverer will come from Zion; He will take away wickedness from Jacob [f],
And this will be my covenant with them, when I take away their sins [g].
So, as for the gospel they are enemies because of you, but as for the election they are loved because of the parents;
because the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable.
In the same way, you were once disobedient to God, but now you have obtained mercy for their disobedience.
Likewise, they have been disobedient at this time so that, by the mercy bestowed on you, they too may now be granted mercy.
Because God locked everyone up under disobedience to have mercy on everyone.
O depth of the riches, the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!
Because: Who understood the mind of the Lord? Or who became your counselor? [H].
Or who has given him first to be rewarded by him? [I].
For from him and through him and to him are all things. Let the glory be his for centuries. Amen.