I say truth in Christ, I am not lying, and my conscience bears witness to me in the Holy Spirit,
that I have great sadness and continuous pain in my heart.
Because I myself wanted to be anathema, separated from Christ, for the sake of my brothers, those who are my relatives according to the flesh;
that they are Israelites, of which are the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the promulgation of the law, and the worship and the promises;
from whom are the parents, and from whom, according to the flesh, comes Christ, who is God over all things, blessed forever. Amen.
But it is not that the word of God has failed, because not all who are from Israel are Israelites,
nor because they are descendants of Abraham are they all children, but: In Isaac you will be called descendants.
That is: Not those who are children according to the flesh are the children of God, but those who are children according to the promise are counted in the descendants.
For the word of promise is this: By this time I will come, and Sarah will have a son.
And not only this; but Rebekah also conceived of one, of Isaac our father
(For they had not yet been born, nor had they yet done good or evil, so that God's purpose according to the election would remain, not by works but by the one who called),
he was told that the eldest would serve the minor.
As it is written: I loved Jacob, but I hated Esau.
What shall we say then? That there is injustice in God? No way!
For to Moses he says: I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.
So it does not depend on the one who wants, nor on the one who runs, but on God who has mercy.
Because the Scripture says to Pharaoh: For this very reason I have raised you up, to show you my power, and so that my name may be proclaimed throughout the whole earth.
So whoever wants, has mercy, and whoever wants to harden, it hardens.
Then you will say to me: Why, then, do you blame? For who has resisted his will?
Rather, oh man, who are you, so that you alter with God? Will the earthenware vessel say to the one who made it: Why have you done this to me?
Or does the potter not have the power to make of the same mass a glass for honor, and another for dishonor?
And what if God, wanting to show anger and make his power known, patiently endured the vessels of anger prepared for destruction,
and to make known the riches of his glory, he showed them to the vessels of mercy that he prepared beforehand for glory;
whom have you also called, namely us, not only from the Jews, but also from the Gentiles?
As also in Hosea says: I will call my people who were not my people; and the unloved, loved.
And it will happen that in the place where they were told: You are not my people, there they will be called children of the living God.
Isaiah also proclaims regarding Israel: If the number of the children of Israel is as the sand of the sea, only the remnant will be saved;
because the work will finish and it will shorten it in justice, because short work the Lord will do on the earth.
And as Isaiah said before: If the Lord of armies had not left us descendants, like Sodom we would have become, and to Gomorrah we would be similar.
What shall we say then? That the Gentiles who did not go after justice have achieved justice, that is, justice that is by faith;
On the other hand, Israel, which was seeking the law of justice, has not reached that law of justice.
Why not? For they did not seek it by faith, but by the works of the aley, therefore they stumbled upon the stumbling block,
as it is written: Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling block and a falling rock; And whoever believes in him will not be ashamed.