I recommend to our sister Phoebe, deaconess of the church that is in Cencrea,
that they may receive her in the Lord as she is worthy of the saints, and that they may help her in whatever is necessary; because she has helped many, including myself.
Greet Priscilla and Aquilas, my collaborators in Christ Jesus,
who exposed their necks for my life, and to whom I am grateful, not only me but also all the Gentile churches.
Also say hello to your home church. Greet Epeneto, my beloved, who is one of the first fruits of Asia in Christ.
Greet Mary, who has worked hard among you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and fellow prisoners, who are highly esteemed by the apostles and who were also before me in Christ.
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbano, our collaborator in Christ, and Estaquis, my beloved.
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Say hello to those at Aristobulus' house.
Say hello to Herodion, my relative. Greet those of Narcissus' house, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who have worked hard in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persida, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Greet Rufo, the chosen one in the Lord and his mother, who is also mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes and the brothers who are with them.
Say hello to Philologist and Julia, Nereo and his sister, Olimpas and all the saints who are with them.
Greet each other with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
But I beg you, brethren, to notice those who cause divisions and stumbles against the doctrine they have learned, and to turn away from them.
Because such people do not serve Christ our Lord but their own stomachs, and with soft words and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Because your obedience has become known to all so that I rejoice because of you; but I want them to be wise for good and innocent for evil.
And the God of peace will shortly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
Timothy, my collaborator, and Lucius, Jason and Sosipater, my relatives, greet you.
I Third, who have written the epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, the host of me and of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, treasurer of the city, and Brother Fourth greet you.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And to him who can make them firm —according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, and according to the revelation of the mystery that has been hidden from eternal times
but that it has been manifested now and that, through the prophetic Scriptures and according to the commandment of the eternal God, it has been made known to all nations for the obedience of faith—,
to the only wise God, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.