James, servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes that are scattered: Salud.
Take great joy, my brothers, when you meet various trials,
knowing that the test of your faith produces patience.
But be patient his perfect work, so that you are perfect and complete, without missing anything.
And if any of you lacks wisdom, ask God, who gives generously and without reproach to all, and it will be given to him.
But ask in faith, doubting nothing, because he who doubts is similar to the wave of the sea, which is moved by the wind and thrown from one part to another.
Do not think, then, that man who will receive anything from the Lord.
The double-minded man is fickle in all his ways.
The brother who is of humble condition, rejoice in his exalted position;
but he who is rich, in his humble condition, because he will pass like the flower of the grass.
Because when the sun rises with scorching heat, the grass dries up, and its flower falls and its beautiful appearance perishes; so the rich man will also wither in all his ways.
Blessed is the man who endures temptation, because once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him.
When someone is tempted, do not say that he is tempted by God, because God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone,
but each one is tempted, when of his own lust he is attracted and seduced.
And concupiscence, after she has conceived, gives birth to sin; and sin, being consummated, gives birth to death.
My beloved brethren, do not err.
Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above, and descends from the Father of lights, in whom there is no change or shadow of variation.
He, of his will, made us be born by the word of truth, so that we would be like the first fruits of his creatures.
For this, my beloved brothers, every man is quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger,
because the wrath of man does not produce the justice of God.
Therefore, discarding all filth and excess of malice that abounds so much, receive with meekness the implanted word, which can save your souls.
But be doers of the word, and not just listeners, deceiving yourselves.
For if anyone is a hearer of the word, and not a doer of it, he is like a man who considers his natural face in a mirror.
Because after looking at himself, he leaves, and immediately forgets what he was like.
But the one who looks intently at the perfect law, that of freedom, and perseveres in it, not being a forgetful listener, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in what he does.
If anyone believes himself religious among you, and does not restrain his tongue, but deceives his heart, the religion of such is in vain.
The pure and unblemished religion before God the Father is this: To visit the orphans and the widows in their tribulations, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world.