My brethren, do not become many of you teachers, knowing that we will receive a more severe judgment.
Because we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, also capable of restraining the whole body.
Now, if we put the brake on the horses' mouth to obey us, we also direct their entire bodies.
Look also at the ships; Although they are so large and driven by strong winds, they are, however, directed by a very small rudder where the will of the pilot wants.
So also the tongue is a small member, and yet it boasts of great things. Look, what a great forest catches fire with such a small fire!
And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is placed between our members, which contaminates the whole body, is lit by hell and inflames the course of our lives.
Because all kinds of beasts and birds, reptiles and marine animals, can be tamed and have been tamed by mankind,
but no man can tame the tongue; it is a troubled evil and filled with deadly poison.
With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made in the image of God;
blessing and curse come from the same mouth. My brothers, this should not be like this.
Does a fountain through the same opening pour fresh and bitter water?
Perhaps, my brothers, can a fig tree produce olives, or a vine figs? Nor can the source of salty water produce fresh water.
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct his works in meekness of wisdom.
But if you have bitter jealousy and personal ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant and thus lie against the truth.
This wisdom is not that which comes from above, but is earthly, natural, devilish.
Because where there is jealousy and personal ambition, there is confusion and all bad things.
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceful, kind, patronizing, full of mercy and good fruit, without hesitation, without hypocrisy.
And the seed whose fruit is justice is sown in peace by those who make peace.