James, servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes of the dispersion: Greetings.
Take great joy, my brothers, when you meet in various trials
knowing that the test of your faith produces patience.
But let patience have its complete work so that they are complete and complete, leaving nothing behind.
And if any of you lacks wisdom, ask God - who gives to all liberally and without reproach - and it will be given to you.
But ask in faith, doubting nothing. Because the one who doubts is similar to a wave of the sea moved by the wind and thrown from one side to the other.
Do not think such a man will receive anything from the Lord.
The double-minded man is unstable in all his ways.
The brother of humble condition, glory in his exaltation;
but the rich man, in his humiliation because he will pass like the flower of the grass.
For the sun rises with its heat and dries the grass, whose flower falls, and its beautiful appearance fades. In the same way, the rich man will also wither in the midst of his business.
Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial because, when it has been tested, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him.
Let no one say when tempted: "I am tempted by God" because God is not tempted by evil, and he does not tempt anyone.
But each one is tempted when he is drawn away and seduced by his own passion.
Then that passion, after having conceived, gives birth to sin; and sin, once carried out, begets death.
My dear brothers, do not be deceived:
Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above and descends from the Father of lights in whom there is no change or shadow of variation.
Of his own free will, he made us be born by the word of truth so that we would be like firstfruits of his creatures.
Know, my beloved brothers: Every man be quick to hear, slow to speak and slow to anger
because the wrath of man does not carry out the justice of God.
Therefore, discarding all filth and evil that abounds, meekly receive the implanted word which can save your life [a].
But be doers of the word, and not just hearers deceiving yourselves.
Because when someone is a hearer of the word and not a doer of it, he is similar to the man who looks at his natural face in a mirror.
He looks at himself and leaves, and soon forgets what he was like.
But he who pays attention to the perfect law of liberty and perseveres in it without being a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, he will be blessed in what he does.
If someone seems to be religious and does not restrain his tongue but deceives his heart, the religion of such is in vain.
The pure and uncontaminated religion before God and the Father is this: to care for orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world.