My brothers, have the faith of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ without distinction of persons.
Because if a man with a gold ring and luxurious clothes enters his congregation, and a poor man with a dirty dress also enters,
and they only attend with respect to those who wear luxurious clothes and say: "Sit here in a good place"; and to the poor they say: "Stay there standing" or "Sit here at my feet",
Do you not make a distinction between yourselves, and do you not become judges with bad criteria?
My beloved brothers, hear: Has not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that he has promised to those who love him?
But you have insulted the poor. Are they not oppressed by the rich, and are they not the ones who drag them to court?
Do they not blaspheme the good name that has been invoked upon you?
If you really follow the royal law according to the Scriptures: You will love your neighbor as yourself, they do good.
But if they make a distinction of persons they commit sin and are reproved by the law as transgressors.
Because anyone who keeps all the law but offends at one point has become guilty of everything.
Because the one who said: Do not commit adultery also said: Do not commit murder [b]. And if you do not commit adultery but commit murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
Thus they speak and thus they act, like those who are about to be judged by the law of freedom.
For there will be judgment without mercy against him who does not show mercy. Mercy glories triumphantly over judgment!
My brothers, if anyone says that he has faith and does not have works, what is the use? Can your faith save you?
If a brother or sister is naked and lacks daily food,
and some of you say to them: "Go in peace, warm up and be satiated" but you don't give them what is necessary for the body, what is the use?
So also faith, if it has no works, is dead in itself.
However, someone will say: "You have faith, and I have works." Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works!
You believe that God is one [c]. You do well. Even the demons believe and tremble.
But do you want to know, vain man, that faith without works is dead? [D].
Was not our father Abraham justified by works, when he offered his son Isaac on the altar?
You can see that faith worked together with his works and that faith was completed by works.
And the Scripture was fulfilled that says: And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for righteousness [e]; and he was called a friend of God.
You can see, then, that man is justified by works and not only by faith.
Similarly, was not the prostitute Rajab also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them by another way?
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is also dead.