Hear now, rich! Cry and howl for the miseries that come upon you.
Your riches have rotted and your clothes are moth-eaten.
Your gold and silver have rusted, their rust will be a witness against you and will consume your flesh like fire. It is in the last days that you have accumulated treasures.
Behold, the wages of the workers who have reaped your fields and which has been retained by you, cry out against you; and the cry of the reapers has reached the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have lived luxuriously on earth, and you have led a life of unbridled pleasure; you have fattened your hearts on the day of the slaughter.
You have condemned and killed the righteous; he does not resist you.
Therefore, brothers, be patient until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the land, being patient in it until he receives the early and the latter rain.
Be patient also; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
Brothers, do not complain against each other, so that you will not be judged; look, the judge is at the gates.
Brothers, take as an example of patience and affliction the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
See that we consider blessed those who suffered. You have heard of Job's patience, and you have seen the result of the Lord's action, that the Lord is very compassionate, and merciful.
And above all, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven, nor by earth, nor by any other oath; rather, be your yes, yes, and your no, no, so that you do not fall under judgment.
Does anyone suffer among you? Let him pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing praises.
Is anyone among you sick? Let him call the elders of the church and pray for him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord;
and the prayer of faith will restore the sick, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins they will be forgiven.
Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The effective prayer of the righteous can accomplish much.
Elijah was a man of passions like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
And again he prayed, and the sky gave rain and the earth produced its fruit.
My brothers, if one of you strays from the truth and someone makes him return,
know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save his soul from death, and will cover many sins.
