Come on now, oh rich! Cry and howl for the miseries that come upon you.
Their riches have rotted, and their clothes are eaten by moths.
Its gold and silver are moldy; its mold will serve as a testimony against you and will devour your flesh like fire. They have piled up treasures in the last few days!
Behold, the wages of the workers who reaped your fields cry out, the one that has been fraudulently retained by you. And the cries of those who reaped have reached the ears of the Lord of Hosts.
They have lived in pleasures on earth and have been dissolute. They have fattened his heart on the day of the slaughter.
They have condemned and killed the righteous. He offers no resistance.
Therefore, brothers, be patient until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until he receives the early and late rains.
Be patient also; affirm your heart, because the coming of the Lord is near.
Brothers, do not murmur against one another so that you will not be condemned. Behold, the Judge is already at the gates!
Brothers, take for example out of affliction and patience the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
Behold, we consider blessed those who persevered. They have heard of Job's perseverance and have seen the Lord's ultimate purpose, that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful.
But above all, my brothers, do not swear by heaven or earth or by any other oath. Rather, be your yes, yes; and its no, no [a], so that they do not fall under condemnation.
Is anyone afflicted among you? Let him pray! Is anyone happy? Let him sing psalms!
Are any of you sick? Let him call the elders of the church and pray for him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith will give health to the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if you have committed sins they will be forgiven.
Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The fervent prayer of the just, working effectively, can do much.
Elijah was a man subject to passions like us, but he prayed insistently that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
And he prayed again, and the sky gave rain and the earth produced its fruit.
My brothers, if anyone among you is deceived, deviating from the truth, and another makes him return,
know that he who turns the sinner from the error of his way will save his life from death and cover a multitude of sins.