My brothers, do not have your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of favoritism.
Because if a man with a gold ring and dressed in luxurious clothes enters your congregation, and a poor man with dirty clothes also enters,
and you give special attention to the one who wears the luxurious clothes, and you say: You sit here, in a good place; and to the poor you say: Stand there, or sit by my dais;
Have you not made distinctions among yourselves, and have you become judges with bad thoughts?
Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that He promised to those who love Him?
But you have belittled the poor. Are not the rich oppressing you and personally dragging you to court?
Do they not blaspheme the good name by which you have been called?
If in truth you fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture: YOU WILL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF, you do well.
But if you show favoritism, you commit sin and you are found guilty by law as transgressors.
Because anyone who keeps all the law, but stumbles at one point, has become guilty of all.
Well, the one who said: DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, also said: DO NOT KILL. Now, if you do not commit adultery, but kill, you have become a transgressor of the law.
So speak and so proceed, as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty.
Because the judgment will be without mercy for the one that has not shown mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
What good is it, my brothers, if someone says that he has faith, but has no works? Can that faith save him?
If a brother or sister does not have clothes and lacks daily sustenance,
And one of you says to them: Go in peace, warm up and be satisfied, but you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what is the use?
So also faith by itself, if it has no works, is dead.
But someone will say: You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith without works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
You believe that God is one. You do well; Even the demons believe and tremble.
But are you willing to admit, O vain man, that faith without works is sterile?
Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar?
You see that faith worked together with his works, and as a result of works, faith was perfected;
and the Scripture was fulfilled that says: AND ABRAHAM BELIEVED GOD AND IT WAS TOLD TO HIM BY JUSTICE, and he was called a friend of God.
You see that man is justified by works and not only by faith.
And in the same way, was not the harlot Rahab also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them by another way?
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is also dead.