Come on now, oh rich! Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come.
Your wealth is rotten and your clothes are moth-eaten.
Your gold and silver are moldy; and its mold will testify against you, and will devour your whole body like fire. You have accumulated treasures for the final days.
Behold, the wages of the workers who have reaped in your lands cry out, which by deception has not been paid for you; and the cries of those who had reaped have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have lived in delight on earth, and you have been dissolute; you have fattened your hearts as on a day of slaughter.
You have condemned and killed the righteous, without his resisting you.
Therefore, brothers, be patient until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently, until he receives the early and the latter rain.
Be patient also; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
Brothers, do not complain against each other, so that you will not be condemned; behold, the judge is already at the gates.
Take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord as an example of affliction and patience.
Behold, we consider blessed those who suffer. You have heard of Job's patience, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, because the Lord is very merciful and compassionate.
But above all, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven, nor by earth, nor by any other oath; but your yes is yes, and your no is no, so that you do not fall in condemnation.
Is anyone among you afflicted? Make prayer. Is anyone happy? Sing praises.
Is anyone sick among you? Call the elders of the church, and pray for him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if you have committed sins, they will be forgiven.
Confess your faults to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed; effective prayer of the just can do much.
Elijah was a man subject to passions similar to ours, and he earnestly prayed that it did not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
And again he prayed, and the sky gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit.
Brothers, if anyone among you has wandered from the truth, and someone brings him back,
know that he who turns the sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death, and will cover a multitude of sins.