My brothers, do not become many teachers knowing that we will receive more rigorous judgment
because we all offend in many things. If anyone does not offend in word, this is a complete man, also capable of restraining the entire body.
Behold, we put a brake on the horses' mouth so that they obey us and we also direct their entire bodies.
Also consider the boats: Although they are so large and carried by strong winds, they are steered with a very small rudder anywhere according to the whim of the one who drives them.
So also the tongue is a small member but it boasts of great things. Look how such a small fire burns down such a large forest!
And the tongue is a fire; it is a world of evil. The tongue is placed between our limbs and is the one that contaminates the entire body. It sets fire to the course of our lives [a] and is inflamed by hell.
For beasts and birds, reptiles and sea creatures of all kinds can be tamed, and have been tamed, by humans.
But no man can tame his tongue; because it is an uncontrollable evil, full of deadly poison.
With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been created in the image of God.
Blessing and curse come from the same mouth. It cannot be, my brothers, that these things are like this.
Is it possible for fresh and bitter water to flow from a spring through the same opening?
My brothers, can the fig tree produce olives, or the vine figs? Neither does fresh water spring from a salt water source [b].
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him demonstrate by his good conduct his works in the meekness of wisdom!
But if in your heart you have bitter jealousy and strife, do not boast or lie against the truth.
This is not the wisdom that comes down from above but is earthly, animal, and devilish.
Because where there is jealousy and strife, there is disorder and all perverse practice.
Instead, the wisdom that comes from above is first pure; then she is peaceful, tolerant, accommodating, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and not hypocritical.
And the fruit of justice is sown in peace for those who make peace.