James, servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ: To the twelve tribes that are in the dispersion: Greetings.
Take for great joy, my brothers, that you find yourself in various trials,
knowing that the test of your faith produces patience,
and that patience has its perfect result, so that you are perfect and complete, without missing anything.
But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him stone God, who gives to all abundantly and without reproach, and it will be given to him.
But let him ask in faith, without hesitation; For he who doubts is like the wave of the sea, driven by the wind and thrown from one part to another.
Do not think, then, that man, who will receive anything from the Lord,
being a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
But let the brother of humble condition glory in his high position,
and the rich man in his humiliation, for he will pass away like the flower of the grass.
Because the sun rises with scorching heat and dries the grass, and its flower falls and the beauty of its appearance perishes; thus also the rich man will wither away in the midst of his enterprises.
Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, because once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him.
Let no one say when he is tempted: I am tempted by God; because God cannot be tempted by evil and He himself does not tempt anyone.
Rather, each one is tempted when led and seduced by his own passion.
Later, when passion has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and when sin is consummated, it begets death.
My dear brothers, do not be deceived.
Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above, descends from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change or shadow of variation.
In the exercise of his will, He caused us to be born by the word of truth, so that we would be the first fruits of his creatures.
This you know, my beloved brothers. But let everyone be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;
for the wrath of man does not work the justice of God.
Therefore, discarding all filth and all remnants of malice, humbly receive the implanted word, which is powerful to save your souls.
Be doers of the word and not just listeners who deceive themselves.
For if anyone is a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror;
for after looking at himself and leaving, he immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
But he who looks closely at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides in it, having not become a forgetful hearer but an effective doer, he will be blessed in what he does.
If anyone believes himself religious, but does not restrain his tongue, but deceives his own heart, the religion of such is vain.
The pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father is this: to visit the orphans and the widows in their afflictions, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world.
