How dare any of you, having one matter against another, go to trial before the unjust and not, rather, before the saints?
Or do they not know that the saints are to judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you unworthy of judging such small lawsuits?
Do they not know that we are to judge angels? How much more the things of this life!
Therefore, if there are lawsuits regarding the things of this life, which for the church are of little esteem, do they put these to judge?
To embarrass them I say it. Well what? Is there not a single wise man among you who can judge among his brothers?
But brother goes to trial against brother, and this before the unbelievers!
Without a doubt, it is already a total failure for you to have lawsuits between yourselves. Why not rather suffer injustice? Why not be rather disappointed?
However, you do injustice and defraud, and this to the brothers!
Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Make no mistake: that neither sexual immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate nor homosexuals
Neither thieves nor misers nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
And this was some of you, but you have already been washed, but you are already sanctified, but you have already been justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but not everything suits me. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by any.
Food is for the stomach, and the stomach for food, but God will destroy both the one and the other. The body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
For as God raised the Lord, he will also raise us up by his power.
Do they not know that their bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then remove the members of Christ to make them members of a prostitute? No way!
Or do you not know that he who is united to a prostitute is made with her one body? Because it says: The two will be one flesh [a].
But he who unites himself with the Lord is one spirit.
Flee from sexual immorality. Any other sin that man commits is outside the body, but the sexual immoral sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, that dwells in you, which you have from God, and that they are not yours?
Well, they have been bought for a price. Therefore glorify God in your body.