Do any of you dare, when you have something against your neighbor, to go to trial before the unbelievers and not before the saints?
Or do you not know that the saints are to judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you not competent to judge the most trivial cases?
Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more matters of this life!
So, if you have courts that judge the cases of this life, why do you put as judges those who are nothing in the church?
To your shame I say it. Is there not a wise man among you who can judge among his brothers,
but brother against brother litigates, and this before unbelievers?
So, in fact, it is already a fault between you the fact that you have disputes between you. Why don't you suffer injustice better? Why not be better disappointed?
On the contrary, you yourselves commit injustices and defraud, and this to the brothers.
Or do you not know that the unjust will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be fooled: neither the immoral, nor the idolaters, nor the adulterers, nor the effeminate, nor the homosexuals,
Neither thieves, nor misers, nor drunkards, nor slanderers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
And this was some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but not all are of benefit. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by any.
Food is for the stomach and stomach for food, but God will destroy them both. However, the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body.
And God, who raised the Lord, will also raise us up by his power.
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? No way!
Or do you not know that he who joins a harlot is a body with her? Because He says: THE TWO WILL COME TO BE ONE FLESH.
But the one who joins the Lord is a spirit with Him.
Flee from fornication. All the other sins that a man commits are outside the body, but the fornicator sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, which is in you, which you have from God, and that you are not yours?
Well, for price you have been bought; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are of God.