Do any of you dare, when you have something against another, go to court before the unjust, and not before the saints?
Or do you not know that the saints are to judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you unworthy of judging very small things?
Or do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more the things of this life?
Therefore, if you have judgments about things of this life, do you put to judge those who are of less esteem in the church?
To embarrass you I say it. Why, there is not a wise man among you, not even one, who can judge between his brothers,
but brother with brother lawsuits in judgment, and this before the unbelievers?
So, by the way it is already a fault in you that you have lawsuits among yourselves. Why do you not rather suffer the wrong? Why don't you rather suffer being defrauded?
But you commit the wrong, and you defraud, and this to the brothers.
Do you not know that the unjust will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be fooled: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor those who lie with men,
Neither thieves, nor misers, nor drunkards, nor cursing, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
And this you were some, but you have already been washed, but you have already been sanctified, but you have already been justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but not all agree; all things are lawful to me, but I will not submit to the power of any.
Food is for the belly, and the belly for food; but him and them both the one and the others God will destroy. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
And God, who raised the Lord, will also raise us up with his power.
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then remove the members of Christ, and make them members of a harlot? No way!
Or do you not know that he who unites himself with a harlot is one body with her? Because it says: The two will be one flesh.
But he who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit.
Flee from fornication. Any other sin that man commits is outside the body; but he who fornicates sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, which is in you, the one you have from God, and that you are not yours?
Because you have been bought with a price; Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are of God.