As for the offering for the saints, do you also in the same way that I ordered the churches of Galatia.
On the first day of the week, each of you keep something in your house, treasuring in proportion to how you are prospering, so that when I arrive there is no need to make offerings.
When I am there, I will send those whom you approve by letters, to take your donation to Jerusalem.
And if it is convenient for me to go too, they will go with me.
I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, because I will pass through Macedonia.
It could be that I stay with you or that I even spend the winter there, so that later you can direct me where I should go.
Because now I don't want to see you in passing, but I hope to stay with you for some time, if the Lord allows it.
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost;
for a great and effective door has been opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
If Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; because he works in the Lord's work, just like me.
Therefore, no one has you in little; rather, direct him in peace so that he may come to me, because I wait for him with the brothers.
About Brother Apollos, I greatly encouraged him to come to you with the brothers; but there was absolutely no will to go now. However, he will go when he has a chance.
Keep watch; be firm in the faith; be brave and strive.
All your things are done with love.
Brothers, you know that the house of Estéfanas is the firstfruits of Achaia and that they have dedicated themselves to the service of the saints; I beg you
that you submit yourselves to such and to all who collaborate and work hard.
I am glad of the coming of Estéfanas, Fortunato and Acaico, because these supplied what I lacked on your part;
because they calmed my spirit and yours. Recognize, then, such.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquilas and Priscilla, with the church that is in their house, greet you very much in the Lord.
All the brothers greet you. Greet each other with a holy kiss.
The greeting of my hand: Pablo.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be anathema. Maranatha!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.