Paul, called to be an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and brother Sosthenes;
to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus and called to be saints, with all those who in every place invoke the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Thank you I always give my God to you for the grace of God that was granted to you in Christ Jesus;
because in everything they have been enriched in him, in every word and in all knowledge.
Thus the witness of Christ has been confirmed among you
until they do not lack any gift, while they wait for the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Furthermore, he will confirm them to the end, so that they are blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
God is faithful, through whom they were called to the communion of their Son Jesus Christ, our Lord.
I urge you, therefore, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to come to an agreement and that there should be no more disagreements between you, but that you be completely united in the same mind and in the same opinion.
Because I have been informed of you, my brothers, by those of Chloe, that there are disputes among you.
I mean that one of you is saying: "I am from Paul", another "I from Apollos", another "I from Peter [a]" and another "I from Christ".
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or have they been baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I did not baptize any of you, but Crispus and Gaius,
so that no one says that he has been baptized in my name
(But I also baptized those of the house of Estéfanas; as for the others, I do not know if I baptized someone else).
Because Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel; not with wisdom of words, so that the cross of Christ is not made vain.
Because for those who are lost, the message of the cross is insanity; but for us who are saved, it is the power of God.
For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will put aside the understanding of the wise [b].
Where's the wise man? Where the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age present? Is it not true that God has transformed the wisdom of this world into madness?
Since in the wisdom of God the world has not known God through wisdom, it seemed good to God to save believers through the folly of preaching.
Because the Jews ask for signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom;
but we preach Christ crucified: for the Jews a stumbling block and for the gentile folly.
But to those called, both Jewish and Greek, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
For the foolish of God is wiser than men, and the weak of God is stronger than men.
Well consider, brethren, your calling: There are not many wise according to the flesh, nor many powerful, nor many noble.
Rather, God has chosen the foolish of the world to shame the wise, and the weak of the world God has chosen to shame the strong.
God has chosen the vile of the world and the despised; what is not, to undo what is,
so that no one [c] can boast before God.
Through him you are in Christ Jesus, to whom God made for us wisdom [d], justification, sanctification and redemption;
so that, as it is written: He who glories, glorify himself in the Lord [e].