Follow charity and seek spiritual gifts, but above all, that you prophesy.
For he who speaks in tongues does not speak to men, but to God, for nobody understands him, because by the spirit he speaks mysteries.
But he who prophesies speaks to men for edification, and exhortation and consolation.
He who speaks in a foreign language builds himself up; but he who prophesies edifies the church.
So, I would like all of you to speak in tongues, but more than prophesy; for greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets them, that the church may receive edification.
Now then, brothers, if I come to you speaking languages, what will benefit you, if I do not speak to you with revelation, or with knowledge, or with prophecy or with doctrine?
Certainly the inanimate things that produce sounds, like the flute or the harp, if they do not give sounds with distinction, how will one know what is played with the flute or the zither?
And if the trumpet sounds uncertain, who will prepare for battle?
So also you, if by the language you do not give a very understandable word, how will what you say be understood ?, because you will speak on the air.
Perhaps there are so many kinds of languages ​​in the world, and none are without meaning;
but if I do not understand the meaning of the words, I will be as a foreigner to the one who speaks, and the one who speaks will be as a foreigner to me.
Likewise you, since you long for spiritual gifts, try to make them abound in you for the edification of the church.
Therefore, he who speaks in tongues, pray that he may interpret them.
Because if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays; but my understanding is fruitless.
So? I will pray with the spirit, but I will also pray with the understanding; I will sing with the spirit, but I will also sing with the understanding.
Because if you bless with the spirit, the one who occupies the place of a simple listener, how will Amen say to your thanksgiving? He does not know what you have said.
Because you, in truth, well give thanks, but the other is not built.
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you;
but in the church I prefer to speak five words with my understanding, to also teach others, than ten thousand words in tongues.
Brothers, do not be children in the way of thinking, but be children in malice, but mature in the way of thinking.
In the law it is written: In other languages ​​and with other lips I will speak to this people; and they will not even hear me, says the Lord.
So, tongues are for a sign, not to believers, but to unbelievers; but the prophecy, not to the unbelievers, but to the believers.
So if the whole church comes together in one place, and they all speak in tongues, and unknowing or unbelieving people come in, won't they say you're crazy?
But if all prophesy, and some unbeliever or unlearned person enters, he is convinced by all, he is judged by all;
what is hidden in his heart becomes manifest; and thus, falling down on his face, he will worship God, declaring that God is truly among you.
What, then, brothers? When you meet, each of you has a psalm, has a doctrine, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation; let everything be done for edification.
If anyone speaks in tongues, let two speak, or at most three, and in turn; and that one interprets.
And if there is no interpreter, keep quiet in the church, and speak for yourself and for God.
Also, the prophets speak two or three, and the others judge.
And if something is revealed to another who is sitting, shut up first.
Because you can all prophesy, one by one, so that everyone learns and everyone is exhorted.
And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets,
for God is not the God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints.
Your women remain silent in the congregations, because they are not allowed to speak, but are subject, as the law also says.
And if you want to learn something, ask your husbands at home, because it is unseemly for a woman to speak in the congregation.
Has the word of God come from you, or has it only come to you?
If anyone in your opinion is a prophet, or spiritual, recognize that what I am writing to you are commandments of the Lord.
But he who ignores it, let him ignore it.
So, brothers, try to prophesy, and do not prevent speaking in tongues.
But do everything decently and in order.