Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother,
to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all those who everywhere invoke the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I always thank my God for you, for the grace of God that was given to you in Christ Jesus,
because in everything you were enriched in Him, in every word and in all knowledge,
just as the testimony about Christ was confirmed in you;
so that you lack nothing in any gift, anxiously awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
which will also confirm you to the end, so that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is God, through whom you were called to communion with his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord.
I beg you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree, and that there are no divisions among you, but that you are entirely united in the same mind and in the same opinion.
Because I have been informed about you, my brothers, by those of Chloe, that there are disputes between you.
I mean that each one of you says: I am from Paul, I from Apollos, I from Cephas, I from Christ.
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I did not baptize any of you except Crispus and Gaius,
so that no one says that you were baptized in my name.
I also baptized those from the house of Estéfanas; otherwise I don't know if I baptized someone else.
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with eloquent words, so that the cross of Christ is not made vain.
For the word of the cross is foolishness for those who perish, but for us saved it is the power of God.
Because it is written: I WILL DESTROY THE WISDOM OF THE WISE, AND THE UNDERSTANDING OF THE INTELLIGENT I WILL DISPOSE.
Where's the wise man? Where the scribe? Where the controversialist of this century? Has not God made the wisdom of this world foolish?
Because since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through its own wisdom, it pleased God, through the folly of preaching, to save those who believe.
For indeed the Jews ask for signs and the Greeks seek wisdom;
but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block for the Jews, and foolishness for the Gentiles;
but for those called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
Porque la necedad de Dios es más sabia que los hombres, y la debilidad de Dios es más fuerte que los hombres.
Well consider, brothers, your call; There were not many wise according to the flesh, nor many powerful, nor many noble;
but God has chosen the foolish thing of the world, to shame the wise ones; and God has chosen what is weak in the world, to shame what is strong;
and the vile and despised of the world God has chosen; what is not, to annul what is;
so that no one can boast before God.
But by his work you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us the wisdom of God, and justification, and sanctification, and redemption,
so that, as it is written: THE ONE THAT GLORIES, THAT GLORIES IN THE LORD.
