And I, brothers, could not speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal, as little children in Christ.
I gave them milk to drink and not solid food, because they still could not receive it, and even now they cannot;
because they are still carnal. For as long as there is jealousy and strife among you, is it not true that you are carnal and walk as humans?
Because when one says: "I am of Paul", while another says: "I am of Apollos", are they not carnal?
What, then, is Apollos? And what is Pablo? Only servants through whom they have believed; and to each according to the Lord he granted.
I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the growth.
So neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters; but God, who gives growth.
The one who plants and the one who waters are the same thing, but each one will receive his reward according to his own work.
Because we are God's collaborators, and you are God's garden, God's building.
According to the grace of God that has been given to me, as an expert architect I have laid the foundation, and another is building on it. But each one watch how he builds on top,
for no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
If someone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay or stubble,
The work of each one will be evident, because the day will make it manifest. For by fire it will be revealed; and the work of each, whatever it may be, the fire will prove.
If the work that someone has built on the foundation remains, he will receive a reward.
If someone's work is burned, he will suffer loss; although he himself will be saved, but hardly, as by fire.
Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If someone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; because holy is the temple of God, which are you.
No one fool themselves. If anyone among you believes to be wise in this present age, make yourself foolish to become wise.
For the wisdom of this world is folly before God, for it is written: He seizes the wise in their cunning [a];
and again: The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, which are vain [b].
So let no one boast in men; because everything is yours
—Be it Paul, be Apollos, be Peter, be the world, be life, be death, be the present, be the future—, it is all yours,
and you of Christ, and Christ of God.