And passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And Paul, as was his custom, came to meet them, and for three Sabbath days he argued with them, using the Scriptures,
declaring and exposing that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead; and he said: Jesus, whom I am announcing to you, is the Christ.
And some of them believed and joined Paul and Silas; and a great multitude of the devoted Greeks, and of the chief women not a few.
Then the Jews who were unbelievers, being jealous, took some idle men with them, evil men, and gathering a mob, they thrashed the city; And, rushing to Jason's house, they tried to get them out to the town.
But when they did not find them, they brought Jason and some brothers before the city authorities, crying out: These who are stirring up the world have also come here,
whom Jason has received; and all these act against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
And the people and the city authorities became rowdy when they heard these things.
But after receiving bail from Jason and the others, they released them.
Immediately the brothers sent Paul and Silas at night to Berea, who, having arrived, entered the synagogue of the Jews.
And these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all solicitude, searching the Scriptures every day to see if these things were so.
So many of them believed, and distinguished Greek women, and not a few men.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that Paul's word of God was also proclaimed in Berea, they went there and they also stirred the people.
But immediately the brothers sent Paul to go to the sea; and Silas and Timothy stayed there.
And those who had been in charge of leading Paul took him to Athens; and having received orders for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was inflamed seeing the city given over to idolatry.
So he argued in the synagogue with the Jews and with the believers, and in the square every day with those who attended.
And some philosophers of the Epicureans and Stoics disputed with him; and some said: What does this babbler want to say? And others: He seems to be a preacher of new gods; because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
And taking him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying: Can we know what this new doctrine is that you proclaim?
Because you bring strange things to our ears; So we want to know what this means.
(Because all the Athenians and the foreigners residing there, did nothing else, except in saying or hearing something new).
Pablo stood in the middle of the Areopagus and said: Athenian men, in everything I observe that you are very religious,
because passing and looking at your sanctuaries, I also found an altar on which was this inscription: TO THE NOT KNOWN GOD. The one you adore, therefore, without knowing him, is the one whom I announce to you.
The God who made the world and all the things that are in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by human hands,
nor is he honored by the hands of men, as if he needed something, because he is the one who gives everyone life and breath and all things.
And from one blood he has made all the lineage of men, that they should dwell on all the face of the earth; and he has prefixed the order of the times and the limits of their room,
so that they would seek God, if in some way, feeling, they would find Him; although it is certainly not far from each one of us.
Because in him we live, and we move and we are; as some of your own poets also said: Because we are their lineage.
Being, therefore, lineage of God, we should not think that the Divinity is similar to gold, or silver, or stone, sculpture of art and imagination of men.
But God, having overlooked the times of this ignorance, now commands all men everywhere to repent.
Because he has established a day in which he will judge the world with justice, by that man whom he has appointed, giving faith to all by having raised him from the dead.
But when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some were mocking, and others were saying: We'll hear you talk about this again.
And so Paul came out from among them.
But some believed and joined him, among whom were also Dionysius, the Areopagus, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.