And after separating from them, we set sail and sailed directly to Cos, and the next day, to Rhodes and from there to Pátara.
And finding a ship passing Phenicia, we boarded and departed.
And when we sighted Cyprus, leaving it on the left, we sailed to Syria and arrived in Tire, because the ship had to unload there.
And having found the disciples, we stayed there seven days; and they told Paul, by the Spirit, not to go up to Jerusalem.
And when those days were over, we went out, all of us accompanying each other, with their wives and children, out of town; and kneeling on the beach, we pray.
And after hugging each other, we got on the boat, and they went home.
And we complete the navigation, leaving Tire and arriving at Tolemaida; and having greeted the brothers, we stayed with them one day.
The next day, when Pablo and those who were with him were leaving, we arrived at Caesarea; and entering the house of Philip, the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.
And he had four daughters, maidens, who prophesied.
And while we were there for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea,
who, coming to us, took the belt from Paul and, tying his hands and feet, said: This is what the Holy Spirit says: Thus the Jews in Jerusalem will bind the man whose belt is this, and will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles .
When we heard this, we and those of that place asked him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Then Paul answered: What are you doing crying and afflicting my heart? Because I am willing not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And since we could not persuade him, we gave up, saying: The Lord's will be done.
And after those days, having prepared ourselves, we went up to Jerusalem.
And some of the disciples also came with us from Caesarea, bringing with them one named Mnason, from Cyprus, an ancient disciple, with whom we would stay.
And when we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us with joy.
And the next day, Paul went with us to see James; and all the elders were gathered together,
To whom, after he had greeted them, he recounted in detail what God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
And they, when they heard it, glorified God and said: You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who have believed; and they are all jealous of the law.
But they have been informed about you, that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to separate themselves from Moses, telling them that they are not to circumcise their children or observe customs.
What is it then? The crowd will certainly gather, because they will hear that you have come.
Do, then, what we tell you: There are four men among us who have taken a vow.
Take them with you, purify yourselves and pay their expenses to shave their heads, and everyone will understand that there is nothing that was reported to you about you, but that you also walk orderly, keeping the law.
But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have written to them regarding our decision not to keep any of this; only that they abstain from what is sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from fornication.
Then Paul took these men with him, and the next day, having purified himself with them, he entered the temple to announce the fulfillment of the days of purification, when the offering would be offered for each of them.
But when the seven days were about to be fulfilled, some Jews from Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people and laid hands on him,
shouting: Israelite men, help! This is the man who everywhere teaches everyone against the people, against the law and against this place; and besides this, he has put Greeks into the temple and has desecrated this holy place.
For before they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, whom they thought Paul had brought into the temple.
So the whole city was in turmoil, and the people crowded together; and seizing Paul, they led him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were closed.
And while they were trying to kill him, the tribune of the company was told that the whole city of Jerusalem was in a rush,
This, immediately taking soldiers and centurions, ran to them. And they, when they saw the tribune and the soldiers, stopped hitting Paul.
Then the tribune arrived, seized him and ordered him to be tied with two chains, and asked who he was and what he had done.
And among the crowd, some shouted one thing, others another; and since he could not understand anything clearly due to the uproar, he ordered him to be taken to the fortress.
Upon reaching the stands, it happened that he was carried by the soldiers by weight due to the violence of the people;
because the crowd of the people came behind, shouting: Die!
And when they began to put Paul in the fortress, he said to the tribune: May I say something to you? And he said: Do you know Greek?
Aren't you the Egyptian who raised a sedition before these days and brought four thousand hitmen into the desert?
Then Paul said: I am indeed a Jewish man, a citizen of Tarsus, a not insignificant city of Cilicia; and I beg you to allow me to speak to the people.
And when he allowed it, Paul, standing on the steps, made a sign with his hand to the people. And with great silence, he spoke in the Hebrew language, saying: