Chapter II - ON THE RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGE SPEAKERS
ARTICLE 10. The State shall guarantee the right of indigenous peoples and communities to access the jurisdiction of the State in the national indigenous language of which they are speakers. To guarantee this right, in all trials and procedures to which they are party, individually or collectively, their customs and cultural specificities must be taken into account, respecting the precepts of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States.
The federal authorities responsible for the procurement and administration of justice, including the agrarian and labor authorities, will provide what is necessary so that in the trials they carry out, the indigenous people are assisted free of charge, at all times, by interpreters and defenders who are aware of their indigenous language and culture.
In the terms of article 5, in the states and municipalities with communities that speak indigenous languages, the measures referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be adopted and implemented, in the instances that are required.
How are advisory or defense services requested?
The applicant must go to one of the offices of the Ombudsman, located in Mexico City, Xalapa and Oaxaca, or you can contact us by phone, email or fax.
In these last three cases (telephone, email or fax) the request will be forwarded for prompt attention to an advocate, who will be responsible for giving due attention to the applicant.
In the indicated offices, the citizen will be attended by an ombudsman, who will fill out an application form with their general information and the reason why they require the services of the Ombudsman.
In order to maximize effective judicial protection, this manual makes the indigenous peoples and communities, as well as the general public, aware of the locations and contact details of the Public Defender of this Court, should they require their services.
Chapter II - ON THE RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGE SPEAKERS
The federal and federal educational authorities will guarantee that the indigenous population has access to compulsory, bilingual and intercultural education, and will adopt the necessary measures so that the educational system ensures respect for the dignity and identity of people, regardless of your language. Likewise, at the middle and higher levels, interculturality, multilingualism and respect for diversity and linguistic rights will be promoted.
Did you know…?
The Superior Chamber, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, has determined that the courts must issue resolutions promptly, completely and impartially, within the terms and terms established by law.
The guarantee of access to electoral justice for indigenous peoples and their communities should be understood as:
Obtaining a sentence issued by state courts.
The resolution of the problem.
The due motivation and justification of the resolution.
The execution of the judicial sentence.
The effectiveness of the administration of electoral justice must be translated into the issuance of sentences without exaggerated and unnecessary formalities.
Chapter II - ON THE RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGE SPEAKERS
ARTICLE 12. Society, and especially the inhabitants and institutions of indigenous peoples and communities, shall be jointly responsible for the fulfillment of the objectives of this Law, and active participants in the use and teaching of languages ​​in the family, community and community spheres. and regional for linguistic rehabilitation.
Did you know…?
Indigenous communities should have their linguistic rights respected during the consultation. In other words, the information they receive in advance must be in the indigenous languages ​​spoken in the community. Also, the assembly in which they will express their opinion must be held in these languages.
Chapter III - ON THE DISTRIBUTION, CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION OF POWERS
ARTICLE 13. It corresponds to the State in its different levels of government to create institutions and carry out activities in their respective areas of competence, to achieve the general objectives of this Law, and in particular the following:
Include within the national, state and municipal plans and programs in the area of ​​indigenous education and culture the policies and actions aimed at the protection, preservation, promotion and development of the various national indigenous languages, with the participation of the peoples and communities natives;
Disseminate in the national indigenous languages ​​of the beneficiaries, the content of the programs, works and services aimed at indigenous communities;
Disseminate through the media the national indigenous languages ​​of the region to promote their use and development;
Include in the curricula of basic and normal education, the origin and evolution of national indigenous languages, as well as their contributions to national culture;
To supervise that interculturality, multilingualism and respect for linguistic diversity are promoted or implemented in public and private education to contribute to the preservation, study and development of national indigenous languages ​​and their literature;
Guarantee that teachers who attend basic bilingual education in indigenous communities speak and write the language of the place and know the culture of the indigenous people in question;
Promote research, dissemination, study and documentation policies on national indigenous languages ​​and their literary expressions;
Create libraries, periodicals, cultural centers or other depository institutions that conserve linguistic materials in national indigenous languages;
Seek that public libraries reserve a place for the preservation of the most representative information and documentation of national indigenous languages ​​and literature;
Support public and private institutions, as well as legally constituted civil society organizations that carry out ethnolinguistic research, in everything related to the fulfillment of the objectives of this Law;
Support the training and professional accreditation of interpreters and translators in national indigenous languages ​​and Spanish;
Guarantee that the institutions, dependencies and public offices have personnel who have knowledge of the national indigenous languages ​​required in their respective territories;
Establish policies, actions and ways to protect and preserve the use of national languages ​​and cultures of indigenous migrants in the national territory and abroad, and
Encourage and encourage speakers of national indigenous languages ​​to participate in policies that promote studies carried out in the various levels of government, academic and research spaces.
Implement the necessary measures so that in the indigenous municipalities of the country, the informative nomenclature signs as well as their place names are registered in Spanish and in the original languages ​​of use in the territory.
Did you know…?
The first translation was made into the Mazatec language, in a case related to the municipality of Mazatlán Villa de Flores, Teotitlán district, in the Cañada de Oaxaca region, so that the community could verbally know the meaning of the sentence.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 14. The National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​is created, as a decentralized organism of the Federal Public Administration, of public and social service, with legal personality and own patrimony, sectorized in the Ministry of Public Education, whose object is to promote the strengthening, preservation and development of the indigenous languages ​​spoken in the national territory, knowledge and enjoyment of the cultural wealth of the Nation, and advising the three orders of government to articulate the necessary public policies in this area. For the fulfillment of this object, the Institute will have the following characteristics and powers:
a) Design strategies and instruments for the development of national indigenous languages, in coordination with the three levels of government and indigenous peoples and communities.
b) Promote programs, projects and actions to invigorate the knowledge of national indigenous cultures and languages.
c) Expand the social scope of use of national indigenous languages ​​and promote access to their knowledge; stimulate the preservation, knowledge and appreciation of indigenous languages ​​in public spaces and the media, according to the regulations on the matter.
d) Establish regulations and formulate programs to certify and accredit bilingual technicians and professionals. Promote the training of specialists in the subject, who are also knowledgeable of the culture in question, linking their activities and undergraduate and postgraduate programs, as well as diploma courses and specialization, updating and training courses.
e) Formulate and carry out linguistic, literary and educational development projects.
f) Elaborate and promote the production of grammars, the standardization of writing and the promotion of literacy in national indigenous languages.
g) Carry out and promote basic and applied research to improve knowledge of national indigenous languages ​​and promote their dissemination.
h) Carry out research to learn about the diversity of national indigenous languages, and support the National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics to design the methodology for carrying out the sociolinguistic census to determine the number and distribution of its speakers.
i) Act as a body of consultation and advice of the dependencies and entities of the Federal Public Administration, as well as of the instances of the Legislative and Judicial Powers, of the governments of the states and of the municipalities, and of the institutions and social organizations and private in the matter.
j) Report on the application of the provisions of the Constitution, the international treaties ratified by Mexico and this Law, regarding indigenous languages, and issue to the three orders of government the pertinent recommendations and measures to guarantee their preservation and development.
k) Promote and support the creation and operation of institutes in the states and municipalities, in accordance with the applicable laws of the federal entities, according to the presence of the national indigenous languages ​​in the respective territories.
l) To enter into agreements, in accordance with the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, with individuals or legal entities and with public or private, national, international or foreign organizations, in accordance with the Institute's own activities and the applicable regulations.
Did you know…?
The Inter-American Court of Human Rights, in the Yatama vs. Noting that Nicaraguan electoral legislation only allowed participation in electoral processes through political parties, Nicaragua of 2005 stated that there are ways in which candidacies for popularly elected positions are promoted.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 15. The administration of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​will be in charge of a National Council, as a collective government body, and a Director General responsible for the operation of the Institute itself. The legal domicile of the Institute will be Mexico City, Federal District.
An important case of protection of political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples and communities
What happened in Cheran?
This matter was very important because it was a trial promoted by 2,312 citizens who are members of the San Francisco Cherán community, in the state of Michoacán, an indigenous town belonging to the Purépecha people, whose existence dates back to pre-Hispanic times.
The origin of the matter was a document by which a group of members of that community asked the Electoral Institute of Michoacán to determine that the organization of the elections in that municipality was under the system of uses and customs.
The Council of the local Electoral Institute determined that it lacked competence to decide on the request of the indigenous community, to hold elections under its customs and customs.
As they did not agree, the same group of indigenous people addressed the Superior Chamber, who agreed with them, considering that, in accordance with articles 2, section a, section VIII, of the Federal Constitution, 8, section 1, of the Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and Convention 169 of the International Labor Organization, it is the right of indigenous communities and their constituents to be governed under the system that they consider appropriate, provided that the constitutional principles are duly respected.
In this sense, it was specified that, in relation to the determination of autonomy, any technical or factual obstacle that prevents or inhibits the exercise of indigenous communities or any of its members must be removed, since full access to a judgment.
Hence, no state or national entity can remain indifferent in relation to the obligations derived from Article 1 of the Constitution, as well as from all those national legal instruments and those of the international order in which the requirement to recognize and protect ethnic diversity and culture of indigenous peoples.
Consequently, on February 5, 2012, after the appointment of authorities in the general assemblies of the four neighborhoods of Cherán and in accordance with its indigenous regulatory system, the community authorities, including the highest organ of the communal government, took office. , the K'eri Janaxkaticha.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 16. The National Council shall be integrated with: seven representatives of the federal public administration, three representatives of indigenous schools, higher education institutions, and universities, and three representatives of academic institutions and civil organizations that have distinguished themselves by the promotion, preservation, and defense of the use of indigenous languages.
The representatives of the Federal Public Administration are the following:
The Secretary of Public Education, who will preside over it in his capacity as head of the sector coordinator, based on the provisions of the Federal Law on Parastatal Entities.
A representative of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit with the level of Undersecretary.
A representative of the Ministry of Social Development.
A representative of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation.
A representative of the National Council for Culture and the Arts.
A representative of the National Indigenous Institute.
A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Relations.
The Director General will be appointed by the President of the United Mexican States, on the proposal of a short list presented by the National Council and may remain in office for a maximum period of 6 years; preferably native speaker of some indigenous language; with experience related to some of the substantive activities of the Institute and enjoying recognized professional and academic prestige in the research, development, dissemination and use of indigenous languages.
SUP-JDC-325/2014. The case of San Jacinto Yaveloxi, municipality of Santiago Choápam
In the case, members of the indigenous community of San Jacinto Yaveloxi, belonging to the municipality of Santiago Choápam, Oaxaca, promoted a trial for the protection of the political-electoral rights of the citizen against the agreement via jump of the instance (per saltum) issued by the General Council of the State Electoral and Citizen Participation Institute of Oaxaca, alleging the incorrect validity of an assembly act in which the municipal authorities were chosen within the framework of the customs and practices of the indigenous community to which that belong. The contested act could have been known and resolved by the state electoral court, but due to the alleged irregularities manifested by the prosecutors, which were found to be closely related to the resolution, it was considered that due to the importance and importance of the matter, and in order to avoid that the issuance of contradictory judgments between the state electoral court and the Superior Chamber could occur, the per saltum was updated, that is, that the Superior Chamber heard of the challenge.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 17. The operating rules of the governing body, the administrative and operational structure, as well as the powers and execution rules of the institute's management body, will be established in the Internal Regulations of the body and will be issued by the National Council.
The governing body will meet every six months in an ordinary way, and in an extraordinary way when called by its President; it will be integrated by the majority of its members, and its decisions will be adopted with the majority of those present.
Did you know…?
A right of indigenous peoples and communities is that their uses and customs be recognized, so it is recommended that local public electoral bodies analyze the possibility of sending the file to the indigenous community authorities so that they are the ones who know the matter and give a satisfactory solution that avoids litigation.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 18. For the fulfillment of his attributions the General Director will have the faculties of domain, of administration and for lawsuits and collections, including those that require a special clause, without more limitations than the specific ones that the Statute will impose in a general way. or temporary by the National Council.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 19. The administrative oversight body of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​shall be composed of a Proprietary Public Commissioner and an Alternate, designated by the Secretariat of the Comptroller and Administrative Development.
Because I do not want you to ignore, brothers, that our parents were all under the cloud and they all passed through the sea;
and in Moses all were baptized in the cloud and in the sea;
and they all ate the same spiritual food;
and they all drank the same spiritual drink, because they drank from a spiritual rock that followed them; and the rock was Christ.
However, God was not pleased with most of them, as they lay in the desert.
These things happened as an example to us, so that we would not covet evil, as they lusted after it.
Therefore do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written: The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose to play.
Neither let us fornicate, as some of them fornicated, and in one day 23,000 fell.
Nor should we provoke the Lord, as some of them provoked him, and they were destroyed by serpents.
Neither murmur, as some of them murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
These things happened to them as an example, and were written as teaching for us, for whom the end of the ages has come.
Therefore, whoever believes he is firm, be careful lest he fall.
No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to men; and faithful is God, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear, but with temptation will also provide the way of escape, so that you can resist it.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
I speak to you as wise; judge what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not the participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not the participation in the body of Christ?
Since the bread is one, we, who are many, are one body; for we all share in that same bread.
Consider the people of Israel: do those who eat the sacrifices not partake of the altar?
What do I mean then? That what is sacrificed to idols is something, or that an idol is something?
No, but I say that what the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to the demons and not to God; I don't want you to be partakers with demons.
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
Or will we make the Lord jealous? Are we perhaps stronger than Him?
Everything is lawful, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is lawful, but not everything builds.
Let no one seek his own good, but that of his neighbor.
Eat everything that is sold in the butcher shop without asking anything for reasons of conscience;
for the earth is the Lord's and everything in it.
If any unbeliever invites you and you want to go, eat everything that is put before you without asking anything for reasons of conscience.
But if someone says to you: This has been sacrificed to idols, do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for reasons of conscience; for the earth is the Lord's and everything in it.
I mean, not your conscience, but that of the other; for why should my freedom be judged by the conscience of others?
If I participate gratefully, why should I be censored for what I am thankful for?
So whether you eat, drink, or do anything else, do it all for the glory of God.
Be not a stumbling block to Jews, to Greeks, or to the church of God;
just as I also try to please everyone in everything, not seeking my own benefit, but that of many, so that they may be saved.
Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
I praise you because in everything you remember me and keep the traditions firmly, just as I gave them to you.
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man, and the head of Christ is God.
Every man who covers his head while praying or prophesying dishonors his head.
But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying dishonors her head; because one is made with the one that is shaved.
Because if the woman does not cover her head, she will also cut her hair; but if it is dishonorable for a woman to cut her hair, or to shave, that she cover herself.
For man should not cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man.
Because the man does not come from the woman, but the woman from the man;
for indeed man was not created because of woman, but woman because of man.
Therefore, the woman must have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.
However, in the Lord, neither woman is independent of man, nor is man independent of woman.
For just as woman comes from man, so also man is born of woman; and all things come from God.
Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
Does not nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair it is a disgrace to him,
But what if the woman has long hair is a glory to her? Well, her hair is given as a veil.
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor do the churches of God.
But in giving you these instructions, I do not praise you, for you do not gather together for good, but for evil.
Well, first of all, I hear that when you come together as a church there are divisions between you; and in part I believe it.
For it is necessary that there be sides among you, so that those who are approved may appear among you.
So when you come together, this is no longer eating the Lord's supper,
because when eating, each one takes his own dinner first; and one goes hungry and another gets drunk.
Than? Don't you have houses to eat and drink? Or do you belittle the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I tell you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you.
For I received from the Lord the same thing that I have taught you: that the Lord Jesus, on the night that he was delivered, took bread,
and after giving thanks, he broke it and said: This is my body that is for you; Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way he also took the cup after supper, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this as many times as you drink it in memory of me.
Because every time you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord until He comes.
So whoever eats the bread or drinks the Lord's cup unworthily will be guilty of the Lord's body and blood.
Therefore, each examine himself, and then eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
For he who eats and drinks without properly discerning the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment for himself.
For this reason there are many weak and sick among you, and many sleep.
But if we were to judge ourselves, we would not be judged.
But when we are judged, the Lord disciplines us so that we are not condemned with the world.
So, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for each other.
If anyone is hungry, eat at home, so that you do not meet for judgment. The rest of the business I'll arrange when I go.
As for spiritual gifts, I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant.
You know that when you were heathens, in one way or another you were dragged towards the silent idols.
Therefore, I let you know that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says: Jesus is anathema; and nobody can say: Jesus is the Lord, except for the Holy Spirit.
Now there is a diversity of gifts, but the Spirit is the same.
And there is a diversity of ministries, but the Lord is the same.
And there are diverse operations, but it is the same God who does all things in everyone.
But each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
For one is given a word of wisdom by the Spirit; to another, the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit;
to another, faith by the same Spirit; to another, gifts of healing by the one Spirit;
to another, the power of miracles; to another, prophecy; to another, discernment of spirits; to another, different kinds of languages, and to another, interpretation of languages.
But all these things are done by one and the same Spirit, distributing each one individually according to the will of Him.
For just as the body is one, and has many members, but all the members of the body, although they are many, constitute a single body, so is Christ.
For by the same Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and we were all given to drink of the same Spirit.
Because the body is not a single member, but many.
If the foot said: Because I am not a hand, I am not part of the body, it does not stop being part of the body.
And if the ear said: Because I am not an eye, I am not part of the body, it does not stop being part of the body.
If the whole body were an eye, what would become of the ear? If everything were heard, what would become of smell?
Now, God has placed each of the members in the body as He pleased.
And if they were all one member, what would become of the body?
However, there are many members, but only one body.
And the eye cannot say to the hand: I don't need you; neither head to toe: I don't need you.
On the contrary, the truth is that the body members that seem to be the weakest are the most necessary;
and the parts of the body that we consider less honorable, we dress these with more honor; so that the parts that we consider more intimate, receive a more honorable treatment,
since our presentable parts do not need it. But thus God formed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it,
so that in the body there is no division, but the members have the same care for each other.
And if a member suffers, all the members suffer with him; and if a member is honored, all the members rejoice with him.
Now you are the body of Christ, and each of you individually a member of it.
And in the church, God has appointed: first, apostles; second, prophets; thirdly, teachers; then miracles; then, gifts of health, aid, administrations, various kinds of languages.
Are they all apostles? Are they all prophets? Are they all teachers? Are they all miracle workers?
Does everyone have gifts of healing? Does everyone speak in tongues? Does everyone interpret?
But earnestly desire the best gifts. And even I show you a more excellent way.
If I spoke human and angelic languages, but I have no love, I have become like a metal that resounds or a cymbal that rattles.
And if I had the gift of prophecy, and understood all the mysteries and all knowledge, and if I had all the faith to move mountains, but I have no love, I am nothing.
And if I gave all my goods to feed the poor, and if I gave my body to be burned, but I have no love, it is of no use to me.
Love is patient, it is kind; love is not envious; love is not boastful, it is not arrogant;
does not behave improperly; does not seek his own, is not irritated, does not take into account the evil received;
he does not rejoice in injustice, but rejoices with the truth;
he suffers everything, he believes everything, he hopes for everything, he endures everything.
Love never stops being; but if there are gifts of prophecy, they will end; if there are tongues, they will cease; if there is knowledge, it will end.
Because in part we know, and in part we prophesy;
but when the perfect comes, the incomplete will end.
When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I reasoned as a child; But when I became a man, I left things as a child.
Because now we see through a mirror, veiled, but then we will see face to face; I now know in part, but then I will know fully, as I have been known.
And now faith, hope and love remain, these three; But the greatest of these is love.
Seek to attain love; but also ardently desire spiritual gifts, especially that you prophesy.
For he who speaks in tongues speaks not to men, but to God, for no one understands him, but in his spirit speaks mysteries.
But he who prophesies speaks to men for edification, exhortation, and consolation.
He who speaks in tongues builds himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church.
I would like you all to speak in tongues, but even more, to prophesy; for he who prophesies is superior to him who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets them so that the church may receive edification.
Now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, of what benefit will I be to you unless I speak to you by means of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophecy, or of teaching?
Even inanimate things, like the flute or the harp, when producing a sound, if they do not give sounds with distinction, how will you know what is played on the flute or harp?
Because if the trumpet makes an uncertain sound, who will prepare for battle?
So you too, unless you utter intelligible words with your mouth, how will you know what you say? Well, you will talk on air.
There are, perhaps, many varieties of languages ​​in the world, and none are without meaning.
For if I do not know the meaning of the words, I will be a speaker to a stranger, and a speaker will be a stranger to me.
So also you, since you long for spiritual gifts, try to abound in them for the edification of the church.
Therefore, he who speaks in tongues, pray in prayer that he may interpret.
Because if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays, but my understanding remains without fruit.
So what? I will pray with the spirit, but I will also pray with the understanding; I will sing with the spirit, but I will also sing with the understanding.
Otherwise, if you bless only in the spirit, how will the Amen say to your thanksgiving the one who occupies the place of the one who does not have that gift, since he does not know what you say?
Because you give thanks well, but the other is not edified.
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you;
however, in the church I prefer to speak five words with my understanding, to instruct others as well, rather than ten thousand words in tongues.
Brothers, do not be children in the way of thinking; rather, be children in malice, but in the way of thinking be mature.
In the law it is written: By men with strange tongues and by the mouth of strangers I will speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.
So tongues are a sign, not for those who believe, but for unbelievers; but prophecy is a sign, not for unbelievers, but for believers.
Therefore, if the whole church gathers and everyone speaks in tongues, and some enter without that gift or are unbelievers, won't they say that you are crazy?
But if everyone prophesies, and an unbeliever enters, or one without that gift, he will be convinced by all, he will be judged by all;
the secrets of his heart will be revealed, and he will fall down and adore God, declaring that God is truly among you.
What, then, must be done, brothers? When you come together, each brings psalm, teaching, revelation, tongues, or interpretation. Let everything be done for edification.
If anyone speaks in tongues, let two speak, or at most three, and in turn, and one interpret;
but if there is no interpreter, let him remain silent in the church and speak for himself and for God.
And let two or three prophets speak, and the others judge.
But if something is revealed to another who is sitting, the first one keeps silent.
Because you can all prophesy one by one, so that everyone learns and everyone is exhorted.
The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets;
for God is not the God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints.
Women keep silent in the churches, because they are not allowed to speak, but rather, they are subject as the law also says.
And if you want to learn something, ask your own husbands at home; because it is not correct for women to speak in church.
Did the word of God come from you, or has it only come to you?
If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual, recognize that what I am writing to you is the commandment of the Lord.
But if anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
Therefore, my brothers, long to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues.
But let everything be done decently and in order.
Now I let you know, brothers, the gospel that I preached to you, which you also received, in which you are also firm,
by which you also are saved, if you keep the word that I preached to you, unless you have believed in vain.
For I delivered to you first of all that which I received: that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;
that he was buried and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures;
that he appeared to Cephas and then to twelve;
then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at the same time, most of whom still live, but some already sleep;
then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles,
and to the last of all, like one born out of time, he also appeared to me.
Because I am the most insignificant of the apostles, I am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace towards me was not in vain; rather I have worked much more than all of them, although not me, but the grace of God in me.
However, whether it was me or them, that's how we preach and that's how you believed.
Now if Christ is preached to be raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
And if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has risen;
and if Christ is not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.
Furthermore, we are found to be false witnesses of God, because we have testified against God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead do not rise.
For if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ is risen;
and if Christ is not risen, your faith is false; you are still in your sins.
Then also those who have slept in Christ have perished.
If we have waited in Christ for this life only, we are, of all men, the most worthy of pity.
But now Christ has risen from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
Because since death entered through a man, also through a man came the resurrection of the dead.
For just as in Adam all die, in Christ also all will be made alive.
But each one in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; then those who are Christ's at his coming;
then the end will come, when He hands over the kingdom to the God and Father, after He has abolished all dominion and all authority and power.
For Christ must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
And the last enemy that will be abolished is death.
Because God has put everything in subjection under his feet. But when he says that all things are subject to him, it is evident that the one who has subjected all things to him is excepted.
And when everything has been submitted to Him, then the Son himself will also subject himself to the one who subjected all things to Him, so that God may be all in all.
If not, what will those who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are not raised at all, why, then, are they baptized for them?
And also, why are we in danger at all times?
I assure you, brothers, for the satisfaction I feel for you in Christ Jesus our Lord, that every day I am in danger of death.
If for human reasons I fought beasts in Ephesus, what use is it to me? If the dead do not rise, let us eat and drink, that tomorrow we will die.
Don't be fooled: "Bad company corrupts good habits."
Be sober, as it is convenient, and stop sinning; because some have no knowledge of God. To your shame I say it.
But someone will say: How do the dead rise? And what kind of body do they come with?
Foolish! What you sow does not come to life if it does not die before;
And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be born, but the bare grain, perhaps of wheat or some other species.
But God gives a body as He wanted, and each seed its own body.
Not all meat is the same meat, but one is that of men, another that of beasts, another that of birds and another that of fish.
There are, likewise, heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is one, and that of the earthly is another.
There is a glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star is distinct from another star in glory.
So is also the resurrection of the dead. A corruptible body is sown, an incorruptible body is resurrected;
it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
a natural body is sown, a spiritual body is resurrected. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
So it is also written: The first man, Adam, was made a living soul. The last Adam, spirit that gives life.
However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual.
The first man is from the earth, earthly; the second man is from heaven.
As is the earthly, so also are those who are earthly; and as the heavenly is, so also are the heavenly.
And just as we have brought the image of the earthly, we will also bring the image of the heavenly.
And this I say, brothers: that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; nor what is corrupted inherits the incorruptible.
Behold, I tell you a mystery: we will not all sleep, but we will all be transformed
in a moment, in the blink of an eye, to the final trumpet; for the trumpet will sound and the dead will rise incorruptible, and we will be transformed.
For this corruptible must dress as incorruption, and this mortal must dress as immortality.
But when this corruptible has clothed itself with incorruption, and this mortal has clothed itself with immortality, then the written word will be fulfilled: Death has been devoured in victory.
Where is, oh die, your victory? Where, oh grave, your sting?
The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law;
but thank God, who gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be firm, constant, always abounding in the Lord's work, knowing that your work in the Lord is not in vain.
Now, as for the offering for the saints, do also as I instructed the churches of Galatia.
On the first day of the week, each of you set aside and keep as you have prospered, so that when I go, no offerings are collected.
And when I arrive, I will send letters whom you have appointed to take your contribution to Jerusalem.
And if it is convenient that I also go, they will go with me.
I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia (for I am going to pass through Macedonia),
and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter there, so that you can direct me where I am going to go.
Well, I don't want to see you now just in passing, because I hope to stay with you for some time, if the Lord allows me.
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost;
for a great door has been opened to me for effective service, and there are many adversaries.
If Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the Lord's work as I do.
Therefore, no one despises him. Rather, send him in peace to come to me, because I am waiting for him with the brothers.
As for our brother Apollos, I very much encouraged him to come to you with the brothers, but in no way did he have the desire to go now; however, he will go when he has a chance.
Be alert, remain firm in the faith, behave manly, be strong.
Let all your things be done with love.
I exhort you, brothers (you already know those of the house of Stephanas, who were the first converts of Achaia, and who have dedicated themselves to the service of the saints),
may you also be in subjection to those who are like them, and to everyone who helps in the work and works.
And I rejoice at the coming of Estéfanas, Fortunato and Acaico, since they have supplied what was lacking on your part.
Because they have recreated my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize such people.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the church that is in their house, greet you very affectionately in the Lord.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
This greeting is from my own handwriting — Pablo.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be anathema. Maranata!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother,
to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all those who everywhere invoke the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I always thank my God for you, for the grace of God that was given to you in Christ Jesus,
because in everything you were enriched in Him, in every word and in all knowledge,
just as the testimony about Christ was confirmed in you;
so that you lack nothing in any gift, anxiously awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
which will also confirm you to the end, so that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is God, through whom you were called to communion with his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord.
I beg you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree, and that there are no divisions among you, but that you are entirely united in the same mind and in the same opinion.
Because I have been informed about you, my brothers, by those of Chloe, that there are disputes between you.
I mean that each one of you says: I am from Paul, I from Apollos, I from Cephas, I from Christ.
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I did not baptize any of you except Crispus and Gaius,
so that no one says that you were baptized in my name.
I also baptized those from the house of Estéfanas; otherwise I don't know if I baptized someone else.
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with eloquent words, so that the cross of Christ is not made vain.
For the word of the cross is foolishness for those who perish, but for us saved it is the power of God.
Because it is written: I WILL DESTROY THE WISDOM OF THE WISE, AND THE UNDERSTANDING OF THE INTELLIGENT I WILL DISPOSE.
Where's the wise man? Where the scribe? Where the controversialist of this century? Has not God made the wisdom of this world foolish?
Because since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through its own wisdom, it pleased God, through the folly of preaching, to save those who believe.
For indeed the Jews ask for signs and the Greeks seek wisdom;
but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block for the Jews, and foolishness for the Gentiles;
but for those called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
Well consider, brothers, your call; There were not many wise according to the flesh, nor many powerful, nor many noble;
but God has chosen the foolish thing of the world, to shame the wise ones; and God has chosen what is weak in the world, to shame what is strong;
and the vile and despised of the world God has chosen; what is not, to annul what is;
so that no one can boast before God.
But by his work you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us the wisdom of God, and justification, and sanctification, and redemption,
so that, as it is written: THE ONE THAT GLORIES, THAT GLORIES IN THE LORD.
When I came to you, brothers, proclaiming the testimony of God, I did not go with superiority of word or wisdom,
for I did not intend to know anything among you, except Jesus Christ and this crucified man.
And I was among you with weakness, and with fear and much trembling.
And neither my message nor my preaching were with persuasive words of wisdom, but with a demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
so that your faith does not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
However, we speak wisdom among those who have reached maturity; but a wisdom not of this century, nor of the rulers of this century, who are disappearing,
but we speak wisdom of God in mystery, the hidden wisdom that, before the centuries, God predestined for our glory;
the wisdom that none of the rulers of this century has understood, because if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
but as it is written: Things that the eye did not see, nor the ear did they hear, Nor have they entered the heart of man, they are the things that God has prepared for those who love him.
But God revealed them to us through the Spirit, because the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
For among men, who knows the thoughts of a man but the spirit of the man who is in him? Likewise, no one knows the thoughts of God but the Spirit of God.
And we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit that comes from God, so that we know what God has freely given us,
of which we also speak, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words.
But the natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, because for him they are foolishness; and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually discerned.
Instead, he who is spiritual judges all things; but he is not judged by anyone.
For who has known the mind of the Lord to instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
So I, brothers, could not speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal, as children in Christ.
I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, because you still could not receive it. In truth, even now you cannot,
because you are still carnal. For with jealousy and strife among you, are you not carnal and walk like men?
Because when one says: I am from Paul, and another: I am from Apollos, are you not just men?
What, then, is Apollos? And what is Pablo? Servants through whom you have believed, according to the Lord each one gave opportunity.
I planted, Apollos watered, but God has given the growth.
So neither he who plants nor he who waters is something, but God who gives growth.
Now the one who plants and the one who waters are the same thing, but each one will receive his own reward according to his own work.
Because we are God's collaborators, and you are God's farm, God's building.
According to the grace of God that was given to me, I, as a wise architect, laid the foundation, and another builds on it. But each be careful how he builds on top.
For no one can lay any other foundation than that which is already laid, which is Jesus Christ.
Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw,
each one's work will become evident; for the day will make it known, for it will be revealed with fire; the fire itself will test the quality of each person's work.
If the work of one who has built on the foundation remains, you will receive a reward.
If anyone's work is consumed by fire, he will suffer loss; yet he will be saved, though as by fire.
Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him, because the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are.
No one fool themselves. If any of you think you are wise according to this world, become foolish in order to become wise.
Because the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written: HE IS THE ONE WHO TAKES THE WISE IN HIS OWN WRONG.
And also: THE LORD KNOWS THE REASONS OF the wise, WHICH ARE USELESS.
So no one brags about men, because everything is yours:
be it Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future, everything is yours,
and you of Christ, and Christ of God.
May every man consider us this way: as servants of Christ and administrators of the mysteries of God.
Now, it is also required of the administrators that each one be found faithful.
As for me, it is of little importance that I be judged by you, or by any human tribunal; in fact, even I don't judge myself.
Because I am not aware of anything against me; but not because of that I am without fault, because the one who judges me is the Lord.
Therefore do not judge ahead of time, but wait until the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things hidden in darkness and will also reveal the designs of hearts; and then each one will receive his praise from God.
This, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for love of you, so that in us you learn not to exceed what is written, so that neither of you becomes arrogant in favor of one against the other.
Because who distinguishes you? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you received it, why do you boast as if you had not received it?
You are already satisfied, you have already become rich, you have already come to reign without us; I wish you had come to reign, so that we also reigned with you.
Because I think that God has exhibited us apostles in the last place, as to those sentenced to death; Because we have become a spectacle for the world, both for angels and for men.
We are fools for the love of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are distinguished, but we are without honor.
Until now, we are hungry and thirsty, we are poorly dressed, we are mistreated and we have nowhere to live;
we exhaust ourselves working with our own hands; when we are abused, we bless; when we are persecuted, we bear it;
when they defame us, we try to reconcile; until now we have become the scum of the world, the waste of everything.
I am not writing this to embarrass you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
For although you have innumerable teachers in Christ, yet you do not have many parents; for in Christ Jesus I begot you through the gospel.
Therefore, I urge you: be imitators of me.
For this reason I have sent Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways, the ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere, in every church.
And some have become arrogant, as if I were not going to come to you.
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wants, and I will know, not the words of the arrogant but their power.
Because the kingdom of God does not consist of words, but in power.
What do you want? Will I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of meekness?
Indeed, it is heard that there is immorality among you, and an immorality such as does not exist even among the Gentiles, to the extent that someone has his father's wife.
And you have become arrogant instead of being saddened, so that the one among you who has committed this action might be cast out from among you.
For I, for my part, although absent in body but present in spirit, as if I were present, have already judged the one who committed such an action.
In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you are gathered together, and I with you in spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
Deliver this fellow to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.
Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven ferments the whole dough?
Clean the old yeast so that you are new dough, just as you are, without yeast. Because even Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed.
Therefore, let us celebrate the feast not with the old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
In my letter I wrote you not to go in the company of immoral people;
I was not talking about the immoral people of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or the idolaters, because then you would have to leave the world.
Rather, in fact, I wrote you not to be in the company of anyone who, calling himself a brother, is an immoral person, or miser, or idolater, or defamer, or drunkard, or swindler; with that, don't even eat.
Well, why should I judge outsiders? Do you not judge those within the church?
But God judges those who are outside. Expel the wicked from among you.
Do any of you dare, when you have something against your neighbor, to go to trial before the unbelievers and not before the saints?
Or do you not know that the saints are to judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you not competent to judge the most trivial cases?
Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more matters of this life!
So, if you have courts that judge the cases of this life, why do you put as judges those who are nothing in the church?
To your shame I say it. Is there not a wise man among you who can judge among his brothers,
but brother against brother litigates, and this before unbelievers?
So, in fact, it is already a fault between you the fact that you have disputes between you. Why don't you suffer injustice better? Why not be better disappointed?
On the contrary, you yourselves commit injustices and defraud, and this to the brothers.
Or do you not know that the unjust will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be fooled: neither the immoral, nor the idolaters, nor the adulterers, nor the effeminate, nor the homosexuals,
Neither thieves, nor misers, nor drunkards, nor slanderers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
And this was some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but not all are of benefit. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by any.
Food is for the stomach and stomach for food, but God will destroy them both. However, the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body.
And God, who raised the Lord, will also raise us up by his power.
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? No way!
Or do you not know that he who joins a harlot is a body with her? Because He says: THE TWO WILL COME TO BE ONE FLESH.
But the one who joins the Lord is a spirit with Him.
Flee from fornication. All the other sins that a man commits are outside the body, but the fornicator sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, which is in you, which you have from God, and that you are not yours?
Well, for price you have been bought; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are of God.
As for the things you wrote me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
However, because of immoralities, that each have his own wife, and each have their own husband.
That the husband fulfill his duty towards his wife, and equally the wife fulfill it with the husband.
The wife has no authority over her own body, but the husband. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife.
Do not deprive each other, except by mutual agreement and for a certain time, to dedicate yourselves to prayer; then come back together so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
But this I say by way of concession, not as an order.
However, I wish that all men were like me. However, each has received from God his own gift, one in one way and another in another.
To singles and widows I say it is good for them if they stay like me.
But if you lack self-control, get married; that it is better to get married than to burn.
I instruct married people, not me, but the Lord: that the wife should not leave her husband
(but if she leaves him, stay unmarried, or else she will reconcile with her husband), and that the husband does not abandon his wife.
But to others I say, not the Lord, that if a brother has a woman who is not a believer, and she agrees to live with him, do not abandon her.
And the woman whose husband is not a believer, and he consents to live with her, does not abandon her husband.
Because the husband who is not a believer is sanctified through his wife; and the woman who is not a believer is sanctified through her believing husband; otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy.
However, if the non-believer separates, let him separate; in such cases the brother or sister is not obligated, but God has called us to live in peace.
Well, how do you know, woman, if you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, if you will save your wife?
Outside of this, as the Lord has assigned each one, as God called each one, so walk. And this I order in all the churches.
Was anyone called already circumcised? Stay circumcised. Was anyone called while uncircumcised? Don't be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of God.
Each one remains in the condition in which he was called.
Were you called being a slave? Do not worry; although if you can get your freedom, prefer it.
For he who was called by the Lord as a slave is freed from the Lord; in the same way, he who was called being free is a slave of Christ.
You were bought for a price; do not become slaves of men.
Brothers, each one remains with God in the condition in which he was called.
As for the maidens, I have no command from the Lord, but I give my opinion as the one who, having received the Lord's mercy, is trustworthy.
So I think this is good in view of the present affliction; that is, that it is good for man to remain as he is.
Are you attached to a woman? Don't try to separate yourself. Are you free from a woman? Don't look for a woman.
But if you marry, you have not sinned; And if a maiden marries, she has not sinned. However, they will have problems in this life, and I want to avoid them.
But this I say, brothers: the time has been shortened; so that from now on those who have a wife are as if they did not have one;
and those who cry, as if they weren't crying; and those who rejoice, as if they did not rejoice; and those who buy, as if they had nothing;
and those who take advantage of the world, as if they did not take full advantage of it; because the appearance of this world is temporary.
But I want you to be free from worry. The bachelor cares about the things of the Lord, how he can please the Lord;
but the married man cares about the things of the world, about how to please his wife,
and their interests are divided. And the woman who is not married and the maiden worry about the things of the Lord, to be holy both in body and in spirit; but the married woman worries about the things of the world, about how to please her husband.
And this I say for your own benefit; not to restrict you, but to promote what is honest and to assure your constant devotion to the Lord.
But if anyone believes that he is not acting correctly with respect to his virgin daughter, if she is of mature age, and if it is necessary that this be done, that she do what she wants, she does not sin; Let him marry.
But he who is firm in his heart, and without any pressure, and has control over his own will, and has decided in his heart to keep his daughter unmarried, will do well.
So both of them, the one who gives his virgin daughter in marriage, does good; and he who does not give it in marriage does better.
The wife is bound while the husband lives; but if the husband dies, he is free to marry whomever he wishes, only in the Lord.
But in my opinion, you will be happier if you stay as you are; And I think I also have the Spirit of God.
As for what was sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies.
If anyone thinks they know something, they have not yet learned how to know it;
but if anyone loves God, that one is known to Him.
Therefore, as for eating what has been sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is only one God.
Because although there are some so-called gods, either in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords,
However, for us there is only one God, the Father, from whom all things proceed and we are for Him; and a Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things are and through whom we exist.
However, not everyone has this knowledge; but some, being used to the idol until now, eat food as if it were sacrificed to an idol; and his conscience, being weak, is stained.
But food will not recommend us to God, because we are neither less if we do not eat, nor are we more if we eat.
But be careful, lest your freedom somehow become a stumbling block to the weak.
For if anyone sees you, who have knowledge, sitting at the table in an idol temple, will not his conscience be stimulated, if he is weak, to eat what has been sacrificed to idols?
And for your knowledge the one who is weak will be lost, the brother for whom Christ died.
And so, by sinning against the brothers and hurting their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.
Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I cause my brother to stumble.
I'm not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
If for others I am not an apostle, at least for you I am; for you are the seal of my apostolate in the Lord.
My defense against those who examine me is this:
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
Do we not have the right to take with us a believing wife, as well as the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
Or perhaps only Barnabas and I do not have the right not to work?
Who has ever served as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its fruit? Or who cares for a flock and does not drink the milk of the flock?
Do I say this according to human judgment? Doesn't the law also say the same?
For in the law of Moses it is written: YOU SHALL NOT MUTE THE OX WHEN IT THRESHES. Does God care about oxen?
Or does it say it especially for us? Yes, it was written for us, because he who plows must plow with hope, and he who threshes must thresh with the hope of receiving the harvest.
If we sow the spiritual in you, is it too much that we reap the material from you?
If others have this right over you, don't we have it even more? However, we have not used this right, but we suffer everything so as not to hinder the gospel of Christ.
Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who regularly serve the altar receive their share from the altar?
So also the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel live by the gospel.
But I have not taken advantage of any of this. And I do not write this so that it is done with me; because it would be better to die, than to allow someone to deprive me of this glory.
Because if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast about, for I am under a duty to do so; Well woe to me if I don't preach the gospel!
Because if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward; but if I do it against my will, a commission has been entrusted to me.
What, then, is my reward? That by preaching the gospel, I can offer it for free without making full use of my right in the gospel.
Because although I am free of all, of all I have become a slave to win as many as possible.
I became a Jew as a Jew, to win the Jews; to those under the law, as under the law (although I am not under the law) to win over those under the law;
to those who are without law, as lawless (although I am not without the law of God, but under the law of Christ) to win those who are without law.
I became weak to the weak, to win the weak; I have done everything to all, so that by all means I may save some.
And I do everything for the love of the gospel, to be a partaker of it.
Don't you know that those who run in the stadium, all really run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way that you win.
And everyone who competes in games abstains from everything. They do it to receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible one.
Therefore, I run in this way, not as without a goal; this way I fight, not like hitting the air,
but I strike my body and make it my slave, lest having preached to others, I myself am disqualified.
What existed from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have contemplated and what our hands have felt, about the Word of life
(for life was manifested, and we have seen it and we bear witness and announce to you eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
what we have seen and heard, we also proclaim to you, so that you too may have communion with us; and in truth our communion is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.
We write these things to you so that our joy may be complete.
And this is the message that we have heard from Him and that we announce to you: God is light, and in Him there is no darkness at all.
If we say that we have communion with Him, but we walk in darkness, we lie and we do not practice the truth;
but if we walk in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us.
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of sins and to cleanse us from all evil.
If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar and his word is not in us.
My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
He himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for those of the whole world.
And in this we know that we have come to know him: if we keep his commandments.
He who says: I have come to know him, and does not keep his commandments, is a liar and the truth is not in him;
but whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
He who says he abides in Him must walk as He walked.
Beloved, I am not writing you a new commandment, but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word that you have heard.
On the other hand, I am writing you a new commandment, which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing, and the true light is already shining.
He who says he is in the light, and hates his brother, is still in darkness.
He who loves his brother remains in the light and there is no cause for stumbling in him.
But he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
I am writing to you, children, because your sins have been forgiven by name.
I am writing to you, parents, because you know who has been from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I have written to you, children, because you know the Father.
I have written to you, parents, because you know who has been from the beginning. I have written to you, young people, because you are strong and the word of God remains in you and you have overcome the evil one.
Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the Father's love is not in him.
Because everything in the world, the passion of the flesh, the passion of the eyes and the arrogance of life, does not come from the Father, but from the world.
And the world passes, and also its passions, but the one who does the will of God remains forever.
Little children, it is the last hour, and just as you heard that the antichrist is coming, also now many antichrists have arisen; that's why we know it is the last hour.
They came out of us, but in reality they were not of us, because if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they came out, in order to show that not all of them belong to us.
But you have anointing of the Saint, and all of you know it.
I have not written to you because you ignore the truth, but because you know it and because no lie comes from the truth.
Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
Anyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son also has the Father.
As for you, let what you heard from the beginning remain in you. If what you heard from the beginning remains in you, you will also remain in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise that He himself made to us: eternal life.
I have written these things to you concerning those who are trying to deceive you.
And as for you, the anointing that you received from Him remains in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you; But just as His anointing teaches you about all things, and it is true and not a lie, and just as He has taught you, you remain in Him.
And now, children, remain in Him, so that when He manifests Himself, we have confidence and do not shy away from Him in His coming.
If you know that He is just, you also know that everyone who does justice is born of Him.
Look how great love the Father has bestowed on us, so that we may be called children of God; and that we are. This is why the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
Beloved, we are now children of God and what we will be has not yet been manifested. But we know that when He appears, we will be like Him because we will see Him as He is.
And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.
Everyone who practices sin also practices breaking the law, since sin is breaking the law.
And you know that He manifested Himself in order to take away sins, and in Him there is no sin.
Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has neither seen nor known him.
My children, let no one deceive you; He who practices justice is just, just as He is just.
He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God manifested himself for this purpose: to destroy the works of the devil.
No one who is born of God practices sin, because the seed of God remains in him; and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
In this the children of God and the children of the devil are recognized: everyone who does not practice justice is not of God; Neither does he who does not love his brother.
Because this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: that we love each other;
not like Cain who was of the evil one, and he killed his brother. And for what reason did he kill him? Because his works were bad, and his brother's were just.
Brothers, do not marvel if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brothers. He who does not love remains in death.
Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has permanent eternal life in him.
In this we know love: in that He laid down his life for us; We also have to put our lives for our brothers.
But whoever has the goods of this world, and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how can the love of God dwell in him?
Children, let us not love in word or language, but in fact and in truth.
In this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will secure our hearts before Him
in whatever our hearts condemn us; because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;
and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing before him.
And this is his commandment: that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and that we love one another as he has commanded us.
He who keeps his commandments abides in him and God in him. And in this we know that He abides in us: by the Spirit who has given us.
Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see if they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
In this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God;
and every spirit that does not confess Jesus, is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and that it is now in the world.
My children, you are from God and you have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.
They are from the world; that's why they speak for the world, and the world hears them.
We are from God; He who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. In this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
Beloved, let us love one another, because love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
He who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
In this the love of God was manifested in us: in that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we live through Him.
This is love: not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
Beloved, if God so loved us, we too must love one another.
No one has ever seen God. If we love each other, God remains in us and his love is perfected in us.
In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us: in that he has given us of his Spirit.
And we have seen and bear witness that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world.
Anyone who confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
And we have come to know and have believed the love that God has for us. God is love, and he who remains in love remains in God and God remains in him.
In this love is perfected in us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, for as He is, so we also are in this world.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not made perfect in love.
We love, because He first loved us.
If anyone says: I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen.
And this commandment we have from Him: that he who loves God, also loves his brother.
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God; and everyone who loves the Father loves the one who is born of Him.
In this we know that we love the children of God: when we love God and keep his commandments.
For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome.
Because everything that is born of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory that has overcome the world: our faith.
And who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is the one who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ; not only with water, but with water and blood. And the Spirit is the one that bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
For there are three who bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one. And there are three who bear witness on earth:
the Spirit, the water and the blood, and the three agree.
If we receive the testimony of men, the greater is the testimony of God; because this is the testimony of God: that He has given testimony about his Son.
He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself; He who does not believe God has made God a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given regarding his Son.
And the testimony is this: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
He who has the Son has life, and he who does not have the Son of God does not have life.
These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life.
And this is the confidence we have before Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have made to Him.
If anyone sees his brother committing a sin that does not lead to death, he will ask, and through him God will give life to those who commit sin that does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death; I'm not saying you should ask for that one.
All injustice is sin, and there is sin that does not lead to death.
We know that everyone who is born of God does not sin; but he who was born of God keeps it and the evil one does not touch it.
We know that we are from God, and that the whole world lies under the power of the evil one.
And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know the true one; and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
Children, beware of idols.
Peter, Apostle of Jesus Christ: To the expatriates, from the scattered Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, chosen
according to the prior knowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to obey Jesus Christ and be sprinkled with his blood: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy, has made us be born again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
to obtain an incorruptible inheritance, immaculate, and that will not wither, reserved in heaven for you,
that you are protected by the power of God through faith, for the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time.
In which you rejoice greatly, although now, for a little while if necessary, you are afflicted with various tests,
so that the proof of your faith, more precious than the gold that perishes, although tested by fire, may be found that results in praise, glory and honor in the revelation of Jesus Christ;
Whom you have not seen, you love, and whom you do not see now, but believe in Him, and rejoice greatly with joy unspeakable and full of glory,
obtaining, as a result of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
About this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, diligently inquired and inquired,
seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ indicated within them, predicting the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow.
It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, in these things that have now been announced to you by those who preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven; things angels long to look at.
Therefore gird your understanding for action; be sober in spirit, put your hope completely in the grace that will be brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ.
As obedient children, do not conform to the wishes that you previously had in your ignorance,
but just as he who called you is holy, so also be ye holy in all your way of living;
for it is written, BE THRILLED SAINT, BECAUSE I AM HOLY.
And if you invoke as Father the one who impartially judges according to the work of each one, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your pilgrimage;
knowing that you were not redeemed from your vain way of living inherited from your parents with perishable things like gold or silver,
but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ.
Because He was prepared since before the foundation of the world, but He has manifested Himself in these last times for love of you
that through Him you are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope may be in God.
Since in obedience to the truth you have purified your souls for a sincere love of brothers, love each other dearly, with a pure heart.
For you have been born again, not from a corruptible seed, but from one that is incorruptible, that is, through the word of God that lives and remains.
Because: ALL FLESH IS LIKE GRASS, AND ALL ITS GLORY LIKE THE FLOWER OF GRASS. DRY THE GRASS, CESS THE FLOWER,
BUT THE LORD'S WORD REMAINS FOREVER.
Therefore, rejecting all malice and all deceit, and hypocrisy, envy, and all defamation,
like newborn babies, desire the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow for salvation,
if you have tasted the Lord's kindness.
And coming to Him as a living stone, rejected by men, but chosen and precious before God,
You too, like living stones, be built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood, to offer acceptable spiritual sacrifices to God through Jesus Christ.
For this is found in Scripture: BEHOLD, I PLACE A SELECTED STONE, A PRECIOUS CORNER STONE, AND HE WHO BELIEVES IN HIM SHALL NOT BE ASHAMED.
This precious value is, therefore, for you who believe; but for those who don't believe, THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BEEN A CORNER STONE,
and, TRIPPED STONE AND SCANDAL ROCK; for they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and for this they were also destined.
But you are a chosen lineage, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired for the possession of God, so that you may announce the virtues of the one who called you from darkness to his admirable light;
for you once were not a people, but now you are the people of God; you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.
Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims to abstain from the carnal passions that fight against the soul.
Maintain irreproachable conduct among the Gentiles, so that in what they slander you as evildoers, they, by reason of your good works, in considering them, glorify God on the day of the visitation.
Submit yourselves, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, be it the king, as authority,
or to the governors, as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and praise of those who do good.
Because this is the will of God: that doing good, you make silence the ignorance of the foolish men.
Walk as free, but do not use freedom as a pretext for evil, but use it as servants of God.
Honor everyone, love the brothers, fear God, honor the king.
Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and friendly, but also to those who are unbearable.
Because this finds grace, if for the sake of conscience before God, someone endures penalties suffering unjustly.
For what merit is there, when when you sin and are treated severely, do you bear it with patience? But if when you do good you suffer for it and endure it patiently, it finds grace with God.
Because for this purpose you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his footsteps,
WHO WAS NOT COMMITTED SIN, OR SOME DECEPTION WAS FOUND IN HIS MOUTH;
and who, when they insulted him, did not respond by insulting them; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but was entrusted to the one who judges with justice;
and He Himself bore our sins in His body upon the cross, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by His wounds you were healed.
For you were astray like sheep, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Guardian of your souls.
Likewise, you women, be subject to your husbands, so that if some of them are disobedient to the word, they can be won without a word for the behavior of their wives
by observing your chaste and respectful conduct.
And that your decoration is not external: ostentatious hairstyles, gold jewelry or luxurious dresses,
but be the inner self, with the incorruptible adornment of a tender and serene spirit, which is precious before God.
For thus also the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, being subject to their husbands.
So Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, and you have become her daughters, if you do good and are not frightened by any fear.
And you, husbands, likewise, live comprehensively with your wives, as with a more fragile glass, since she is a woman, giving her honor as a co-heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers are not hindered.
In conclusion, all be of the same mind, compassionate, fraternal, merciful and humble in spirit;
not returning evil for evil, or insult for insult, but rather blessing, because you were called for the purpose of inheriting blessing.
Well, THE ONE WHO WANTS TO LOVE LIFE AND SEE GOOD DAYS, RESTRAINS HIS TONGUE OF EVIL AND HIS LIPS DO NOT SPEAK DECEPTION.
DEPART FROM EVIL AND DO GOOD; LOOK FOR PEACE AND FOLLOW IT.
FOR THE EYES OF THE LORD ARE ON THE RIGHTEOUS, AND THEIR EARS ATTENTION TO THEIR PRAYERS; BUT THE LORD'S FACE IS AGAINST THOSE WHO DO EVIL.
And who can harm you if you show zeal for what is good?
But even if you suffer for justice, you are blessed. AND DON'T BE FEARED BY THEM FOR FEAR OF THEM OR DISTURBED,
but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being prepared to present defense before all those who demand reason of the hope that is in you, but do it with meekness and reverence;
having a good conscience, so that in what you are slandered, those who slander your good conduct in Christ will be ashamed.
For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that is the will of God, than for doing evil.
Because Christ also died for sins only once, the just for the unjust, to bring us to God, dead in the flesh but quickened in the spirit;
in which he also went and preached to the imprisoned spirits,
who were once disobedient when the patience of God waited in the days of Noah, during the construction of the ark, in which a few, that is, eight people, were saved by means of water.
And corresponding to this, baptism now saves you (not by removing the dirt from the flesh, but as a petition to God for a good conscience) through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who is at the right hand of God, having ascended into heaven after angels, authorities, and powers had been brought before him.
Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also for the same purpose, because whoever has suffered in the flesh has finished with sin,
to live the time that remains in the flesh, not for human passions, but for the will of God.
Because the time already passed is enough for you to have done what pleases the Gentiles, having walked in sensuality, lusts, drunkenness, orgies, drunkenness and abominable idolatries.
And in all this, they are surprised that you do not run with them in the same debauchery of dissolution, and they outrage you;
but they will give account to him who is prepared to judge the living and the dead.
For to this end the gospel was preached even to the dead, that even though they might be judged in the flesh as men, they might live in the spirit according to the will of God.
But the end of all things is near; So be prudent and sober in your spirit of prayer.
Above all, be fervent in your love for one another, for love covers a multitude of sins.
Be hospitable to each other, without gossip.
As each has received a special gift, use it by serving one another as good stewards of God's manifold grace.
He who speaks, let him speak according to the words of God; He who serves, let him do it for the strength that God gives, so that in all God he may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom glory and dominion for ever and ever belong. Amen.
Beloved, do not be surprised by the trial fire that has come among you to test you, as if something strange is happening to you;
rather, to the extent that you share the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also in the revelation of his glory you rejoice with great joy.
If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Indeed, for them He is blasphemed, but for you He is glorified.
Let no one of you suffer in any way as a murderer, or a thief, or a criminal, or as a busybody.
But if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but as such glorify God.
Because it is time for the judgment to begin at the house of God; And if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God?
AND IF THE JUST WITH DIFFICULTY IS SAVED, WHAT WILL BECOME THE WICKED AND THE SINNER?
Therefore, those who suffer according to the will of God, entrust their souls to the faithful Creator, doing good.
Therefore, to the elders among you, I exhort, an elder like them and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also partaker of the glory that is to be revealed:
Shepherd the flock of God among you, watching over him, not by obligation, but voluntarily, as God wants; not with the greed of money, but with sincere desire;
Neither as having dominion over those entrusted to you, but proving to be examples of the flock.
And when the Prince of the Shepherds appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the older ones; and all, clothe yourselves with humility in your mutual treatment, because GOD RESISTS THE PROUD, BUT GIVES GRACE TO THE HUMBLE.
Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that He may exalt you in due time,
casting all your anxiety on Him, because He cares for you.
Thirst for evil spirit, be alert. Your adversary, the devil, stalks like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour.
But resist him firm in the faith, knowing that the same experiences of suffering are being fulfilled in your brothers throughout the world.
And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will Himself perfect, affirm, strengthen, and establish you.
To Him be dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Through Silvano, our faithful brother (because I consider it so), I have written briefly to you, exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God. Be firm in it.
The one in Babylon, chosen together with you, greets you, and so does my son Mark.
Greet each other with a kiss of brotherly love.
Paul, Silvano and Timoteo, to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
We always thank God for all of you, making mention of you in our prayers;
keeping constantly in mind before our God and Father your work of faith, your work of love and the firmness of your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ;
knowing, beloved brothers of God, his choice of you,
for our gospel did not come to you only in words, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction; As you know what kind of people we show ourselves to be among you out of love for you.
And you came to be imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word, in the midst of much tribulation, with the joy of the Holy Spirit,
so that you became an example to all believers in Macedonia and Achaia.
Because coming out of you, the word of the Lord has resounded, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also everywhere your faith in God has spread, so that we have no need to speak anything.
Well, they themselves tell about us, about the welcome we received from you, and how you turned from idols to God to serve the living and true God,
and wait from heaven for his Son, whom he raised from the dead, that is, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come.
Because you yourselves know, brothers, that our visit to you was not in vain,
but after having suffered and been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had the courage, trusting in our God, to speak the gospel of God to you in the midst of much opposition.
For our appeal is not from error or impurity, nor is it by deception;
but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts.
Because as you know, we never came to you with flattering words, or with a pretext to profit, God is a witness,
neither seeking glory from men, neither from you nor from others, although as apostles of Christ we could have imposed our authority.
Rather, we show ourselves to be kind to each other, like a mother who tenderly raises her own children.
Having thus a great affection for you, we have been pleased to impart not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you became very dear to us.
Because you remember, brothers and sisters, our work and hard work, how, working day and night so as not to be a burden to any of you, we proclaim the gospel of God to you.
You are witnesses, and also God, of how holy, just and blameless we behave with you believers;
just as you know how we exhorted, encouraged and implored each one of you, as a father would do with his own children,
that you might walk worthy of the God who has called you to his kingdom and glory.
For this we also incessantly thank God that when you received the word of God, that you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God, which also does its work in you who believe.
For you, brothers, came to be imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, because you also suffered the same sufferings at the hands of your own compatriots, just as they suffered at the hands of the Jews,
who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and cast us out, and they do not please God but are contrary to all men,
preventing us from speaking to the Gentiles to be saved, with the result that they always fill the measure of their sins. But the anger has come upon them to the extreme.
But we, brothers, separated from you for a short time, in person but not in spirit, were very anxious, with a deep desire to see your face.
Since we wanted to come to you (at least me, Paul, more than once) but Satan has prevented us.
For who is our hope or joy or crown of glory? Are you not in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming?
For you are our glory and our joy.
Therefore, unable to bear it any longer, we thought it better to be alone in Athens,
and we send Timothy, our brother and collaborator of God in the gospel of Christ, to strengthen and encourage you with respect to your faith;
so that nobody worries about these afflictions, because you yourselves know that we have been destined for this.
Because in truth, when we were with you we predicted that we would suffer affliction, and this has happened, as you know.
So I too, when I couldn't take it anymore, sent to inform myself of your faith, for fear that the tempter had tempted you and that our work would be in vain.
But now Timothy has returned from you to us, and has brought us good news of your faith and love and that you always have a good memory of us, longing to see us, as we also to you;
therefore, brothers, in all our need and affliction we were comforted with respect to you through your faith;
because now we do live, if you are firm in the Lord.
For what thanks can we give to God for you, for all the joy with which we rejoice before our God because of you,
As we pray intensely at night and during the day that we can see your face and that we complete what is lacking in your faith?
Now, then, that the same God and our Father, and Jesus our Lord, direct our way to you;
and may the Lord make you grow and abound in love for each other, and for everyone, as we also do for you;
so that He may affirm your blameless hearts in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
For the rest, brethren, we ask you, therefore, and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that as you have received instructions from us about the way in which you should walk and please God (as in fact you already walk), so abound in it more and more.
For you know what precepts we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus.
Because this is the will of God: your sanctification; that is, that you abstain from sexual immorality;
Let each of you know how to possess your own glass in sanctification and honor,
not in lustful passion, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
and let no one sin and defraud his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, as we also told you before and solemnly warned you.
Because God has not called us to impurity, but to sanctification.
Therefore, he who rejects this does not reject man, but the God who gives you his Holy Spirit.
But as for brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you, because you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another;
because in truth you practice it with all the brothers who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do more and more about it,
and that you have for your ambition to lead a quiet life, and occupy yourself in your own affairs and work with your hands, as we have commanded you;
so that you conduct yourselves honestly towards those outside, and have no need of anything.
But we do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant about those who sleep, so that you are not saddened as others who have no hope do.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so also God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus.
Therefore we tell you this by the word of the Lord: that we who are alive and who remain until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who slept.
For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a voice of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we will be with the Lord forever.
Therefore comfort each other with these words.
Now, brothers, regarding the times and the times, you have no need for anything to be written to you.
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night;
that when they are saying: Peace and security, then destruction will come upon them suddenly, like labor pains to a woman who is pregnant, and they will not escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that the day will surprise you like a thief;
because all of you are children of the light and children of the day. We are not of the night or of darkness.
Therefore, we do not sleep like the others, but we are alert and sober.
For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk get drunk at night.
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and by helmet the hope of salvation.
Because God has not destined us for anger, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we live together with Him.
Therefore encourage one another, and build each other up, just as you are doing.
But we beg you, brothers, to recognize those who diligently work among you and lead you in the Lord and instruct you,
and that you hold them in high esteem with love for their work. Live in peace with one another.
And we exhort you, brothers, to admonish the undisciplined, encourage the discouraged, support the weak and be patient with everyone.
See that no one returns evil to evil to another, but always seek what is good for each other, and for everyone.
Rejoice always;
pray without ceasing;
give thanks in everything, because this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit;
do not underestimate the prophecies.
Rather, examine everything carefully, hold fast to that which is good;
abstain from all forms of evil.
And may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely; and that all your being, spirit, soul and body, be preserved blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he who calls you, who will also do it.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I solemnly charge you for the Lord to read this letter to all the brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus at the command of God our Savior, and of Christ Jesus our hope,
Timothy, true son in faith: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
As I begged you on leaving for Macedonia to stay at Ephesus to instruct some not to teach strange doctrines,
Nor will they pay attention to endless myths and genealogies, which leads to useless discussions instead of advancing God's plan that is by faith, so I entrust you now.
But the purpose of our instruction is love born from a pure heart, from a good conscience and from a sincere faith.
For some, deviating from these things, have turned away to a vain verbiage,
wanting to be teachers of the law, although they do not understand what they say or the things about which they make categorical statements.
But we know that the law is good, if one uses it legitimately,
recognizing this: that the law has not been instituted for the just, but for the transgressors and rebels, for the wicked and sinners, for the irreverent and profane, for parricides and matricides, for homicides,
for immoral people, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, those who swear falsely, and for anything else that is contrary to sound doctrine,
according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which has been entrusted to me.
I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me, because he considered me faithful, putting me in the ministry;
even though I was a blasphemer, a persecutor and an aggressor before. However, I was shown mercy because I did it out of ignorance in my disbelief.
But the grace of our Lord was more than abundant, with the faith and love found in Christ Jesus.
Faithful and worthy word to be accepted by all: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am the first.
However, for this reason I found mercy, so that in me, like the first, Jesus Christ would demonstrate all his patience as an example for those who would believe in Him for eternal life.
Therefore, to the eternal, immortal, invisible King, the only God, to Him be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am entrusting this commission to you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies that were previously made regarding you, so that you fight the good fight for them,
keeping the faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and were shipwrecked as far as faith is concerned.
Among which are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, so that they learn not to blaspheme.
I therefore exhort, above all, that requests, prayers, requests and thanksgivings be made for all men;
for the kings and for all those in authority, so that we can live a quiet and peaceful life with all piety and dignity.
Because this is good and pleasant before God our Savior,
who wants all men to be saved and come to the full knowledge of the truth.
Because there is only one God, and also only one mediator between God and men, Christ Jesus the man,
who gave himself a ransom for all, testimony given in due course.
And for this I was made a preacher and an apostle (I tell the truth in Christ, I don't lie) as a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
Therefore, I want men everywhere to pray by lifting up holy hands, without anger or argument.
Likewise, that women dress in decent clothing, with modesty and modesty, not with ostentatious hairstyle, not with gold, or pearls, or expensive dresses;
but with good works, as befits the women who profess godliness.
Let the woman learn quietly, with all obedience.
I do not allow women to teach or exercise authority over men, but to remain silent.
Because Adam was created first, then Eve.
And Adam was not deceived, but the woman, being completely deceived, fell into transgression.
But you will be saved by begetting children, if you remain in faith, love and holiness, with modesty.
Faithful word is this: If anyone aspires to the office of bishop, he wants to do a good deed.
A bishop must be, therefore, irreproachable, the husband of one woman, sober, prudent, of decent conduct, hospitable, apt to teach,
not given to drink, not quarrelsome, but kind, not contentious, not greedy.
That he governs his house well, having his children subject with all dignity
(for if a man does not know how to run his own house, how can he take care of God's church?);
not a new convert, lest he be puffed up and fall into the damnation into which the devil fell.
He must also have a good reputation among those outside the church, lest he fall into disrepute and the devil's bond.
In the same way, deacons must also be worthy of a single word, not given to much wine, nor lovers of dishonest profits,
but keeping the mystery of faith with a clear conscience.
May these also be tested first, and if they are blameless, then serve as deacons.
Similarly, women must be worthy, not slanderers, but sober, faithful in everything.
May deacons be husbands of one wife, and may they rule their children and their own houses well.
For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves an honorable position and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus.
I am writing these things to you, hoping to come to you soon,
but in case I am late, I am writing so that you know how one should conduct oneself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, column and supporter of the truth.
And indisputably, great is the mystery of piety: He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated in the Spirit, contemplated by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed in the world, received above in glory.
But the Spirit clearly says that in recent times some will apostatize from the faith, paying attention to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons,
through the hypocrisy of liars who have seared conscience;
forbidding to marry and ordering to abstain from foods that God has created so that with thanksgiving those who believe and who have known the truth participate in them.
Because everything created by God is good and nothing should be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving;
because it is sanctified through the word of God and prayer.
By pointing these things out to the brothers, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nurtured with the words of faith and good doctrine that you have followed.
But you have nothing to do with the profane fables of old women. Rather discipline yourself for piety;
because physical exercise takes little advantage, but piety is profitable for everything, because it has promise for the present life and also for the future.
This is a faithful word, and worthy of being accepted by all.
Because for this we work and strive, because we have placed our hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of believers.
This commands and teaches.
Don't let anyone belittle your youth; Before, be an example to believers in word, conduct, love, faith, and purity.
As I arrive, engage in scripture reading, exhortation, and teaching.
Do not neglect the spiritual gift that is in you, which was conferred on you through prophecy with the laying on of hands of the presbytery.
Reflect on these things; dedicate yourself to them, so that your use is evident to all.
Take care of yourself and teaching; persevere in these things, for in doing so you will secure salvation both for yourself and for those who listen to you.
Do not reprimand the old man harshly, but rather exhort him as a father; to the youngest, like brothers,
old women, like mothers; to the younger ones, like sisters, in all purity.
Honor widows who are truly widows;
But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show mercy towards their own family and to reward their parents, because this is pleasing before God.
But the one who is truly a widow and has been left alone, has placed her hope in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day.
But the one who indulges in unbridled pleasures, even living, is dead.
Also order these things, so that they are irreproachable.
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those in his house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
That the widow be listed only if she is not less than sixty years old, having been the wife of one husband,
have a witness of good works; if he has raised children, if he has shown hospitality to strangers, if he has washed the feet of the saints, if he has helped the afflicted, and if he has devoted himself to every good work.
But she refuses to list younger widows, because when they feel sensual desires, contrary to Christ, they want to get married,
thus incurring condemnation, for having abandoned his previous promise.
And also, they learn to be idle, going from house to house; and not only idle, but also talkative and nosy, talking about things that are not worthy.
Therefore, I want the younger widows to marry, to have children, to take care of their home and not give the adversary an opportunity for reproach.
For some have already turned aside to follow Satan.
If any believer has widows in the family, let them support them, and may the church not bear the burden so that it can help those who are truly widows.
Elders who govern well are considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work in preaching and teaching.
Because the Scripture says: YOU WILL NOT MUT THE OX WHEN THRESHING, and: The worker is worthy of his salary.
Do not admit an accusation against an elder, unless there are two or three witnesses.
To those who continue in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all so that others are afraid to sin.
I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of his chosen angels, to preserve these principles without prejudice, doing nothing in a spirit of partiality.
Do not lay hands lightly on anyone, thus sharing responsibility for the sins of others; be free from sin.
No longer drink water alone, but use a little wine because of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
The sins of some men are already evident, going before them to judgment; but to others, their sins follow.
In the same way, good works are evident, and those that are not cannot be hidden.
All who are under the yoke as slaves, consider their own masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and our doctrine are not blasphemed.
And those who have masters who are believers, do not disrespect them, because they are brothers, but serve them even better, since they are believers and loved ones who benefit from their service. Teach and preach these principles.
If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not conform to the sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that is according to godliness,
he is puffed up and understands nothing, but has a morbid interest in discussions and contests of words, from which envies, lawsuits, blasphemies, bad suspicions are born,
and constant quarrels between men of depraved mind, who are deprived of the truth, who suppose that piety is a means of profit.
But godliness is indeed a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment.
Because we have brought nothing to the world, so we can take nothing from it.
And if we have what to eat and what to cover ourselves with, we will be happy with that.
But those who want to enrich themselves fall into temptation and bond and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and perdition.
Because the root of all evils is the love of money, for which, some coveting it, they strayed from the faith and tortured themselves with many pains.
But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and follow justice, piety, faith, love, perseverance and kindness.
Fight the good fight of faith; lay hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and of which you made a good profession in the presence of many witnesses.
I send you before God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who testified of the good profession before Pontius Pilate,
that you keep the commandment without spot or reproach until the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which will manifest in due time the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords;
the only one who has immortality and lives in inaccessible light; whom no man has seen nor can see. To Him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
To the wealthy in this world, teach them not to be haughty or to put their hope in the uncertainty of riches, but in God, who abundantly gives us all things for our enjoyment.
Teach them to do well, to be rich in good works, generous and ready to share,
accumulating for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they can lay hold on what is truly life.
O Timothy, keep what has been entrusted to you, and avoid empty and profane talk, and the objections of what is falsely called science,
which some professed, have deviated from the faith.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. This Law is of public order and social interest, of general observance in the United Mexican States and is intended to regulate the recognition and protection of the linguistic, individual and collective rights of indigenous peoples and communities, as well as the promotion of the use and development of indigenous languages.
Transients
First. This Decree will enter into force the day after its publication in the Official Gazette of the Federation.
Political-electoral rights
Political-electoral rights of the citizens belonging to indigenous peoples and communities
Political rights of Mexican citizens
Articles 34 and 35 of our Political Constitution of the United Mexican States (cpeum) recognize as citizens, that is, subjects of political-electoral rights, all men and women who have Mexican nationality, an honest way of living and who have reached 18 years of age.
The political-electoral rights of Mexican citizens recognized by the Constitution are the following:
Vote in elections.
To be voted for all positions of popular election, fulfilling the requirements that the law establishes to be so.
Associate peacefully to take part in the political affairs of the country.
Exercise the right of petition.
Vote in popular consultations on topics that are of national significance.
The different international instruments on human rights that our country has signed also state as fundamental political-electoral rights the freedom of opinion and expression, the right of assembly and the right to free membership.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 20. The National Council of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages, after consulting the private studies of the National Institutes of Anthropology and History and National Statistics, Geography and Informatics, at the joint proposal of the representatives of indigenous peoples and communities, and of the academic institutions that are part of the Council itself, it will make the catalog of indigenous languages; The catalog will be published in the Official Gazette of the Federation.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 21. The assets of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​will be integrated with the assets listed below:
The amount that the Federal Government sets annually as a subsidy, through the Expenditure Budget;
With the products that you acquire for the works you carry out and for the sale of your publications, and
Those acquired by inheritance, legacies, donations or by any other title of persons or public or private institutions.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 22. To guarantee compliance with the obligations and powers set forth in this Law and pursuant to the provisions of the penultimate paragraph of Section B, of Article 2. of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, regarding indigenous rights and culture, the Chamber of Deputies of the Congress of the Union, the Legislatures of the Federal Entities and the Municipalities, within the scope of their respective competences, will establish the specific items in the expenditure budgets that they approve to protect, promote, preserve, use and develop indigenous languages.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 23. The labor relations of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​and its workers will be governed by the Federal Law of Workers at the Service of the State, regulation of Section A of Article 123 of the Constitution.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 24. The National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​and its state correlates, where appropriate, will promote that the corresponding authorities issue the laws that sanction and penalize the commission of any type of discrimination, exclusion and exploitation of people who speak national indigenous languages, or that transgress the provisions that establish rights in favor of the speakers of national indigenous languages, enshrined in this law.
Chapter IV - THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES
ARTICLE 25. The authorities, institutions, servers and public officials who contravene the provisions of this law shall be liable, in accordance with the provisions of Title Four of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States regarding the responsibility of servers public and its regulatory laws.
And I myself, Paul, I beg you for the meekness and kindness of Christ, I who am humble when I am before you, but daring towards you when I am absent,
I pray, therefore, that when I am present, I do not have to be daring with the confidence with which I intend to proceed resolutely against some who consider us to be walking according to the flesh.
For although we walk in the flesh, we do not fight according to the flesh;
for the weapons of our strife are not carnal, but powerful in God for the destruction of fortresses;
destroying speculation and all haughty reasoning that rises up against the knowledge of God, and putting every thought in captivity to the obedience of Christ,
and being prepared to punish all disobedience when your obedience is complete.
You see things according to the outward appearance. If anyone has self-confidence that he is Christ's, consider this within himself again: that just as he is Christ's, so are we.
For though I glory even more in our authority, which the Lord gave us for edification and not for your destruction, I will not be ashamed,
so it doesn't seem like I want to scare you with my letters.
Because they say: The letters are severe and harsh, but the physical presence is not very impressive, and the way of speaking is negligible.
Let this person take into account: that what we are in word by letter, being absent, we are also in deed, being present.
Because we dare not count or compare ourselves with some who praise themselves; but they, measuring themselves and comparing themselves, lack understanding.
But we will not glory excessively, but within the measure of the sphere that God indicated as the limit to also reach you.
For we do not exceed ourselves, as if we had not reached you, since we were the first to reach you with the gospel of Christ;
not glorifying ourselves excessively, that is, in the works of others, but hoping that as your faith grows, we will be, within our sphere, further enhanced by you,
to proclaim the gospel even to the regions beyond you, and not to glory in what has already been done in the sphere of another.
But he who glories, let him glory in the Lord.
For he who praises himself is not approved, but he whom the Lord praises.
I wish you could bear a little foolishness; and you really support me.
For I am jealous of you with a zeal for God; For I married you to a husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
But I fear that just as the serpent tricked Eve into deceiving you, your minds will be diverted from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ.
Because if someone comes and preaches another Jesus, to whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or you accept a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you will well tolerate it.
For I do not consider myself inferior in any way to the most eminent apostles.
But although I am clumsy in speaking, I am not clumsy in knowledge; in fact, by all means we have shown it to you in all things.
Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you would be exalted, because I preached the gospel of God to you freely?
I robbed other churches, taking wages from them to serve you;
And when I was with you and had need, I was a burden to no one; for when the brothers came from Macedonia, they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself, and will keep myself, from being your burden.
Since the truth of Christ is in me, this glorification will not be prevented in the regions of Achaia.
Why? Why don't I love you? God knows!
But what I do I will continue to do, in order to deprive those who want an opportunity to be considered equal to ourselves in what they boast about.
Because such are false apostles, fraudulent workers, who disguise themselves as apostles of Christ.
And it is not surprising, because even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
Therefore, it is not surprising that their servants also disguise themselves as servants of justice; whose purpose will be according to his works.
Again I say: nobody considers me foolish; but if you do, welcome me even if you are a fool, so that I too may boast a little.
What I say, I do not say as the Lord would say, but as in foolishness, in this confidence to glory.
For since many boast according to the flesh, I will also boast.
Because you, being so wise, gladly tolerate the foolish.
For you tolerate if someone enslaves you, if someone devours you, if someone takes advantage of you, if someone exalts himself, if someone hits you in the face.
To my shame I say that we have been weak in comparison. But in anything else that someone else is daring (I speak foolishly), I am equally daring.
Are they Hebrews? I also. Are they Israelites? I also. Are they descendants of Abraham? I also.
Are they servants of Christ? (I speak as if I have lost my mind.) Me more. In many more jobs, in many more prisons, in scourging countless times, often in danger of death.
Five times I have received thirty-nine lashes from the Jews.
Three times I have been beaten with rods, once I have been stoned, three times I have been shipwrecked, and I have spent a night and a day deep down.
Frequently in trips, in dangers of rivers, dangers of robbers, dangers of my compatriots, dangers of the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the desert, dangers in the sea, dangers between false brothers;
in work and fatigue, in many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and nakedness.
In addition to such external things, the daily pressure of concern for all the churches is upon me.
Who is weak without me being weak? Who is made to sin without my worrying intensely?
If I have to glory, I will glory in my weakness.
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
In Damascus, the governor under King Aretas, watched over the city of the Damascenos in order to apprehend me,
but they took me down in a basket through a window in the wall, and so I escaped from their hands.
Glory is necessary, although it is not profitable; I will then move on to the visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ, who fourteen years ago (I do not know if in the body, I do not know if he was in the body, God knows) he was snatched up to the third heaven.
And I know such a man (if in the body or outside the body I don't know, God knows)
that he was caught up to paradise, and heard unspeakable words that man is not allowed to express.
I will boast of such a man; But as for myself, I will not glory in my weaknesses.
Because if I wanted to glory, I would not be foolish, because I would tell the truth; but I refrain from doing it so that no one thinks of me more than he sees in me, or hears of me.
And given the extraordinary greatness of the revelations, for this reason, in order to prevent me from exalting myself, I was given a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan who slapped me, so that I would not exalt myself.
About this, three times I have prayed to the Lord to take it from me.
And He said to me: My grace is enough for you, because my power is perfected in weakness. Therefore, I will gladly rather glory in my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me.
That is why I take pleasure in weaknesses, insults, privations, persecutions, and anguishes for the love of Christ; because when I am weak, then I am strong.
I have become foolish; you made me do it. Well, I should have been praised by you, because in no way was I inferior to the most eminent apostles, although I am nothing.
Among you the signs of a true apostle were operated, with all perseverance, by means of signs, wonders, and miracles.
For how were you treated as inferior to the other churches, except that I was not a burden to you myself? Forgive me for this wrong!
Behold, this is the third time that I have been prepared to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you, since I do not seek what is yours, but you; Because children have no responsibility to treasure for their parents, but parents for their children.
And I will gladly spend what is mine, and even I will spend myself for your souls. If I love you more, will I be loved less?
But, in any case, I was not a burden; nevertheless, being cunning, I surprised you with deception.
Have I taken advantage of you through one of those whom I have sent to you?
I begged Titus to go, and with him I sent the brother. Did Titus take advantage of you? Have we not conducted ourselves in the same spirit and followed in the same footsteps?
All this time you have been thinking that we defended ourselves against you. Actually, it is before God that we have been speaking in Christ; and everything, beloved, for your edification.
Because I fear that perhaps when I go, I will find that you are not what I want, and I will be found by you that I am not what you want; that there may be lawsuits, jealousy, anger, rivalries, defamation, gossip, arrogance, disorder;
I fear that when I visit you again, my God will humble me before you, and I will have to cry for many who have previously sinned and have not repented of the impurity, immorality and sensuality that they have practiced.
This is the third time I have come to you. By the testimony of two or three witnesses all matters will be judged.
I said previously, when I was present the second time, and although I am now absent, I say it beforehand to those who previously sinned and also to everyone else, that if I go again, I will not be forgiving,
since you are looking for proof of the Christ who speaks in me, who is not weak towards you, but powerful in you.
Because He was certainly crucified out of weakness, but He lives by the power of God. So we too are weak in Him, yet we will live with Him by the power of God towards you.
Put yourself to the test to see if you are in the faith; examine yourselves. Or do you not recognize yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless you really do not pass the test?
But I hope you will recognize that we are not disapproved.
And we pray to God that you do nothing wrong; not so that we appear approved, but so that you do what is good, although we appear disapproved.
Because we can do nothing against the truth, but only in favor of the truth.
For we rejoice when we are weak, but you are strong; We also pray for this: that you are made perfect.
For this reason I am writing these things to you while you are away, so that when I am present I will not have to use severity according to the authority that the Lord gave me for edification and not for destruction.
For the rest, brothers, rejoice, be perfect, comfort yourselves, be of the same mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
All the saints greet you.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and brother Timothy: To the church of God that is in Corinth, with all the saints that are in all Achaia:
Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies and God of all consolation,
which comforts us in all our tribulation, so that we can console those who are in any affliction with the consolation with which we ourselves are consoled by God.
For just as Christ's sufferings are ours in abundance, so also is our comfort through Christ.
But if we are troubled, it is for your comfort and salvation; or if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which works by enduring the same afflictions that we also suffer.
And our hope for you is firmly established, knowing that as you are partners in suffering, so are you in consolation.
Because we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, about our affliction suffered in Asia, because we were overwhelmed beyond measure, beyond our strength, so that we even lost hope of coming out alive.
In fact, within ourselves we already had the death sentence, so that we did not trust ourselves, but God who raises the dead,
who delivered us from such great danger of death and will deliver us, and in whom we have put our hope that He still has to deliver us,
You also cooperate with us with prayer, so that for many people they may be thanked in our favor for the gift that has been imparted to us through the prayers of many.
Because our satisfaction is this: the testimony of our conscience that in holiness and sincerity that comes from God, not in carnal wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world and especially towards you.
Because we write nothing else to you but what you read and understand, and I hope you will understand to the end,
just as you also understood in part that we are the reason for your glory, just as you are ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.
And with this confidence I decided to go first to you so that you would receive a blessing twice,
that is to say, I wanted to visit you on the way to Macedonia, and from Macedonia to come back to you and be guided by you on my journey to Judea.
So when I set out to do this, did I act rashly? Or what I propose, do I propose according to the flesh, so that in me there is at the same time the yes, yes, and the no, no?
But as God is faithful, our word to you is not yes and no.
Because the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us (by me and Silvanus and Timothy) was not yes and no, but has been yes in Him.
For as many as the promises of God are, in Him they are all yes; therefore also through Him, Amen, for the glory of God through us.
Now the one who confirms us with you in Christ and the one who anointed us is God,
who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
But I invoke God as a witness over my soul, that out of consideration for you I have not returned to Corinth.
It is not that we want to have control of your faith, but that we are collaborators with you for your joy; because in faith you remain firm.
But in myself I decided this: not to come to you again with sadness.
Because if I cause you sadness, who will be the one who makes me happy but the one I saddened?
And this is what I wrote to you, so that when I arrive I will not have sadness on the part of those who should rejoice, trusting all of you that my joy is the same for all of you.
Because of the great affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears, not to sadden you, but to let you know the love that I have especially for you.
But if anyone has caused sadness, it has not caused me, but to a certain extent (not to exaggerate) all of you.
This punishment that was imposed by the majority is sufficient for such a person;
so, on the contrary, you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest in some way he be overwhelmed by so much sadness.
Therefore I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
Well, also for this purpose I wrote to you, to test you and see if you are obedient in everything.
But whoever forgives something, I also forgive; because in truth, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, I did for you in the presence of Christ,
so that Satan does not take advantage of us, because we do not ignore his schemes.
When I came to Troas to preach the gospel of Christ, and a door was opened to me in the Lord,
I had no rest in my spirit when I did not find Titus, my brother; Saying goodbye to them, I went to Macedonia.
But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumph, and who through us manifests everywhere the fragrance of his knowledge.
For we are to God the fragrant aroma of Christ among those who are saved and among those who perish;
for some, the smell of death for death, and for others, the smell of life for life. And for these things, who is qualified?
For we are not like many, who trade the word of God, but sincerely, as from God and before God we speak in Christ.
Do we start again to recommend ourselves? Or do we need, like some, letters of recommendation for you or from you?
You are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read by all men,
being manifest that you are a letter of Christ written by us, not written in ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts.
And this trust we have towards God through Christ:
not that we are enough in ourselves to think that anything comes from us, but that our sufficiency is from God,
which also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter, but of the Spirit; because the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
And if the ministry of death engraved on stones was with glory, so that the children of Israel could not fix their eyes on the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, which was fading,
How can the ministry of the Spirit not be more glorious?
For if the ministry of condemnation has glory, much more does the ministry of justice abound in glory.
For in truth, what had glory, in this case has no glory by reason of the glory that surpasses it.
For if what fades away is with glory, much more is what remains with glory.
Having therefore such hope, we speak very frankly,
and we are not like Moses, who put a veil over his face so that the children of Israel would not fix their eyes on the end of that which was to vanish.
But their understanding hardened; for to this day, in the reading of the old covenant, the same veil remains un lifted, for only in Christ is it removed.
And to this day, every time Moses is read, a veil is placed over their hearts;
but when anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.
Now the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
But we all, with our faces uncovered, contemplating the glory of the Lord in a mirror, we are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, as by the Lord, the Spirit.
Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not falter;
Rather, we have renounced what is hidden and shameful, not walking with cunning, nor adulterating the word of God, but, through the manifestation of the truth, we recommend ourselves to the conscience of every man in the presence of God.
And if our gospel is still veiled, for those who perish it is veiled,
in which the god of this world has blinded the understanding of unbelievers, so that they do not see the brightness of the gospel of the glory of Christ, which is the image of God.
Because we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and us as your servants for the love of Jesus.
For God, who said that light shines out of darkness, is the one who has shone in our hearts, to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ.
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the extraordinary greatness of power is from God and not from us.
Afflicted in everything, but not burdened; perplexed, but not desperate;
persecuted, but not abandoned; shot down, but not destroyed;
always carrying in the body everywhere the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus is also manifested in our body.
Because we who live are constantly being delivered to death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal body.
So death works in us, but in you, life.
But having the same spirit of faith, according to what is written: I believed, therefore I spoke, we also believe, therefore we also speak;
knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus, will also raise us with Jesus, and will present us together with you.
Because all of this is for your love, so that the grace that is spreading through many, may make thanksgiving abound for the glory of God.
Therefore we do not falter, rather, although our outer man is declining, yet our inner man is renewed from day to day.
For this slight and transient affliction produces an eternal weight of glory that surpasses all comparison,
by not setting our sights on things that are seen, but on things that are not seen; because the things that are seen are temporary, but the things that are not seen are eternal.
Because we know that if the earthly tent that is our dwelling is destroyed, we have from God a building, a house not made by hands, eternal in heaven.
For, verily, in this abode we groan, longing to be clothed in our heavenly habitation;
and once clothed, we will not be found naked.
Because likewise, those of us in this store, moan overwhelmed, because we do not want to be undressed, but clothed, so that the mortal is absorbed by life.
And the one who prepared us for this very thing is God, who gave us the Spirit as guarantee.
Therefore, always encouraged and knowing that while we live in the body, we are absent from the Lord
(because by faith we walk, not by sight);
but we are encouraged and prefer to be absent from the body and to live with the Lord.
That is why, whether present or absent, we aim to be pleasant to you.
Because all of us must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one is rewarded for his deeds being in the body, according to what he did, be it good or bad.
Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are manifest to God, and I hope that we are also manifest in your consciences.
We do not recommend ourselves to you again, but we give you the opportunity to be proud of us, so that you have an answer for those who boast in appearances and not in the heart.
Because if we are crazy, it is for God; and if we are sane, it is for you.
For the love of Christ urges us, having reached this conclusion: that one died for all, therefore, all died;
and he died for all, so that those who live no longer live for themselves, but for the one who died and rose for them.
So we from now on know no one according to the flesh; Although we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we no longer know Him like this.
So if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; old things happened; behold, new things are made.
And all this comes from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;
namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not taking men into account their transgressions, and has entrusted to us the word of reconciliation.
Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as if God were pleading through us; in the name of Christ we ask you: be reconciled to God!
To him who knew no sin, he made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
And as co-workers with Him, we also exhort you not to receive God's grace in vain;
for He says: At the right time I heard you, and on the day of salvation I helped you. Behold, now is the right time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
Not giving us anything to stumble, so that the ministry is not discredited,
but in everything we recommend ourselves as ministers of God, in much perseverance, in afflictions, in privations, in anguishes,
in scourging, in jails, in riots, in jobs, in sleeplessness, in fasting,
in purity, in knowledge, in patience, in goodness, in the Holy Spirit, in sincere love,
in the word of truth, in the power of God; for weapons of justice for the right and for the left;
in honor and disgrace, in bad name and in good name; like impostors, but truthful;
as unknown, but well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, but not sentenced to death;
as saddened, but always joyful; as poor, but enriching many; as having nothing, although possessing everything.
Our mouth, O Corinthians, has spoken to you quite frankly. Our hearts have been opened wide.
You are not limited by us, but you are limited in your feelings.
Now, in equal reciprocity (I speak to you as children) you also open your hearts wide.
Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what association do justice and iniquity have? Or what communion hath light with darkness?
Or what harmony does Christ have with Belial? Or what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever?
Or what agreement does the temple of God have with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, as God said: I will dwell in them, and walk among them; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.
Therefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord; and do not touch the unclean, and I will receive you.
And I will be a father to you,
Therefore, beloved, having these promises, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Accept us in your heart; we have offended no one, we have corrupted no one, we have not taken advantage of anyone.
I do not speak to condemn you; Because I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together.
Much is my trust in you, I am very proud of you, I am full of comfort and overflowing with joy in all our affliction.
For even when we arrived in Macedonia, our body did not have any rest, but we were troubled on all sides: on the outside, conflicts; inside, fears.
But God, who consoles the depressed, consoled us with the arrival of Titus;
and not only with his arrival, but also with the consolation with which he was comforted in you, letting us know your great affection, your weeping and your zeal for me; so I rejoiced even more.
Because although I made you sad with my letter, it doesn't weigh me down; even when it weighed me down, because I see that that letter caused you sadness, although only for a short time;
But now I rejoice, not that you were saddened, but that you were saddened to repentance; because you were saddened according to the will of God, so that you would not suffer any loss on our part.
Because the sadness that is in accordance with the will of God produces a repentance that leads to salvation, without regret; but the sadness of the world produces death.
For look, what solicitude has this produced in you, this pious sadness, what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what great affection, what zeal, what punishment of evil! In everything you have proven to be innocent in the matter.
So even though I wrote to you, it was not because of the offender, or because of the offended, but so that your concern for us might be revealed to you before God.
For this reason we have been comforted. And apart from our comfort, we rejoice much more for the joy of Titus, for his spirit has been comforted by all of you.
Because if I boasted to you about anything about you, I was not embarrassed, but just as we told you everything with truth, so also our boast before Tito turned out to be the truth.
And his love for you abounds even more when he remembers the obedience of all of you, and how you received it with fear and trembling.
I enjoy that in everything I have confidence in you.
Now, brothers, we present to you the grace of God that has been given in the churches of Macedonia;
for in the midst of a great trial of affliction, his joy abounded, and his deep poverty abounded in the richness of his liberality.
Because I testify that according to their possibilities, and even beyond their possibilities, they gave of their own free will,
pleading with us many times for the privilege of participating in the support of the saints;
and this not as we had expected, but first they gave themselves to the Lord, and then to us by the will of God.
Consequently, we prayed to Titus that as he had already begun before, so too he would carry out in you this work of grace.
But just as you abound in everything: in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all solicitude, and in the love that we have inspired in you, see that you also abound in this work of grace.
I do not say this as a command, but to prove, at the request of others, also the sincerity of your love.
Because you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that being rich, nevertheless out of love for you became poor, so that through your poverty you would become rich.
And I give my opinion on this matter, because this suits you, who were the first to start a year ago not only to do this, but also to want to do it.
Now then, just do it too; so that as there was the good will to desire it, so there is also the will to carry it out according to what you have.
Because if there is good will, it is accepted according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.
This is not for the comfort of others and for your affliction, but for equality;
at the present moment your abundance supplies their need, so that their abundance also supplies your need, so that there is equality.
As it is written: He who gathered much did not have much; and he who gathered little had no shortage.
But thank God that he puts the same request for you in the heart of Titus.
For he not only accepted our plea, but, being himself very diligent, he has come to you of his own free will.
And together with him we have sent the brother whose fame in the things of the gospel has been spread by all the churches;
and not only this, but he has also been designated by the churches as our traveling companion in this work of grace, which is administered by us for the glory of the Lord himself, and to manifest our good will;
taking care that no one discredits us in this generous offering administered by us;
for we care about what is honest, not only in the eyes of the Lord, but also in the eyes of men.
And with them we have sent our brother, whom we have often found to be diligent in many things, but who is now much more diligent because of his great trust in you.
As for Tito, he is my partner and collaborator among you; as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches and glory of Christ.
Therefore, openly show them before the churches the proof of your love, and of our reason to boast about you.
Because it is beside the point to write to you about this service to the saints;
for I know your good disposition, of which I glory for you before the Macedonians, that is, that Achaia has been prepared since last year; and your zeal has stimulated most of them.
But I have sent the brothers so that our boasting about you is not made in vain in this case, so that, as I said, you are prepared;
lest some Macedonians go with me and find you unprepared, and we (if not you) be ashamed of this trust.
So I thought it necessary to exhort the brothers to come forward to come to you, and prepare in advance your generous offering, already promised, so that it would be ready as a generous offering, and not as greed.
But this I say: He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly; and he who sows abundantly will also reap abundantly.
Let each one give as he proposed in his heart, not reluctantly or by obligation, because God loves the joyful giver.
And God can make all grace abound to you, so that having always enough in all things, you abound for every good work;
as it is written: He scattered, gave to the poor; his justice remains forever.
And he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for his food will supply and multiply your sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness;
you will be enriched in everything for all liberality, which through us produces thanksgiving to God.
Because the ministry of this service not only fully supplies what is lacking to the saints, but also abounds through many thanksgivings to God.
By the test given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your contribution for them and for all;
while they too, through prayer on your behalf, demonstrate their longing for you because of the superabundant grace of God in you.
Thank God for his unspeakable gift!
The old man to the chosen lady and her children, whom I truly love, and not only me, but also all who know the truth,
because of the truth that remains in us and that will be with us forever:
Grace, mercy and peace will be with us, from God the Father and Jesus Christ, Son of the Father, in truth and love.
I was very happy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we have received a command from the Father.
And now I beg you, madam, not as writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.
And this is love: that we walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment as you have heard it from the beginning, that you should walk in it.
For many deceivers have gone out into the world who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. That is the deceiver and the antichrist.
Take care that you do not lose what we have achieved, but receive abundant rewards.
Everyone who deviates and does not remain in the teaching of Christ does not have God; He who remains in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him at home, nor greet him,
for the one who greets him participates in his evil deeds.
Although I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do it with paper and ink, but I hope to go to you and speak face to face, so that your joy is complete.
The children of your chosen sister greet you.
Simon Peter, servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith like ours, through the justice of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:
Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
For his divine power has granted us all that concerns life and godliness, through the true knowledge of the one who called us by his glory and excellence,
by means of which he has given us his precious and wonderful promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
For this reason also, working with all diligence, add to your faith, virtue, and to virtue, knowledge;
to knowledge, self-control, self-control, perseverance, and perseverance, piety,
to piety, brotherhood and brotherhood, love.
For these virtues, being in you and abounding, will not leave you idle or sterile in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Because he who lacks these virtues is blind or short-sighted, having forgotten the purification of his past sins.
So, brothers, be all the more diligent to make firm your call and election from God; for as long as you do these things you will never stumble;
for in this way you will be widely granted entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Therefore, I will always be ready to remind you of these things, although you already know them and have been confirmed in the truth that is present in you.
And I consider it fair, while in this body, to stimulate you by reminding you of these things,
knowing that my separation from the earthly body is imminent, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has declared to me.
I too will diligently see to it that you remember these things at all times after my departure.
Because when we made known to you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, we did not follow ingeniously invented fables, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
For when He received honor and glory from God the Father, the majestic Glory made this declaration to him: This is my beloved Son in whom I have been pleased;
and we ourselves hear this statement, made from heaven when we were with Him on the holy mountain.
And so we have the surest prophetic word, which you do well to pay attention to as a lamp that shines in the dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star appears in your hearts.
But first of all know this, that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of personal interpretation,
for no prophecy was ever given by an act of human will, but men inspired by the Holy Spirit spoke from God.
But false prophets arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you, who will covertly introduce destructive heresies, denying even the Lord who bought them, bringing upon themselves sudden destruction.
Many will follow their sensuality, and because of them, the path of truth will be blasphemed;
and in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their judgment has not been idle for a long time, nor is their doom asleep.
For if God did not forgive the angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and delivered them into ditches of darkness, reserved for judgment;
if he did not spare the ancient world, but kept Noah, a preacher of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought the flood upon the world of the wicked;
if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction, reducing them to ashes, setting them up as an example for those who would later live wickedly;
if he rescued the righteous Lot, overwhelmed by the sensual behavior of libertine men
(because that righteous man, because of what he saw and heard while living among them, daily felt his righteous soul tormented by his wicked deeds),
the Lord, then, knows how to rescue the godly from temptation, and reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment,
especially those who walk after the flesh in their corrupted desires and despise authority. Daring and stubborn, they do not tremble when they blaspheme the angelic majesties,
when the angels, who are greater in strength and power, do not pronounce injurious judgment against them before the Lord.
But these, like irrational animals, born as creatures of instinct to be captured and destroyed, blaspheming what they ignore, will also be destroyed with the destruction of those creatures,
suffering evil as payment for his iniquity. They count for delight walking in dissolute pleasures during the day; they are stains and filth, reveling in their deceptions as they feast on you.
Their eyes are full of adultery and they never stop sinning; they seduce unstable souls; they have a heart exercised in greed; they are children of curse.
Abandoning the straight path, they have strayed, following the path of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the payment of iniquity,
but he was rebuked for his transgression, for a mute beast of burden, speaking with a human voice, repressed the madness of the prophet.
These are springs without water, haze driven by a storm, for whom the darkness of darkness is reserved.
For speaking with arrogance and vanity, they seduce by carnal desires, by sensuality, those who recently escaped from those who live in error.
They promise freedom, while they themselves are slaves of corruption, for one is a slave to that which has overcome him.
Because if after having escaped from the contaminations of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and defeated, their last condition becomes worse than the first.
For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of justice, than having known it, to depart from the holy commandment that was given to them.
It has happened to them according to the true proverb: The dog returns to its own vomit, and: The washed sow, returns to wallow in the mud.
Beloved, this is already the second letter that I am writing to you, in which, as a reminder, I awaken in you your sincere understanding,
so that you remember the words spoken beforehand by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Savior declared by your apostles.
First of all, know this: that in the last days scoffers will come, with their arcasm, following their own passions,
and saying: Where is the promise of his coming? Because since the parents slept, everything continues as it was from the beginning of creation.
Well, when they say this, they don't realize that the heavens existed for a long time, and also the earth, emerged from the water and established among the waters by the word of God,
therefore the world of that time was destroyed, being flooded with water;
but the heavens and the earth today are reserved by their word for fire, saved for the day of judgment and the destruction of the wicked.
But, beloved, do not ignore this: that for the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years is like one day.
The Lord does not take long to fulfill his promise, as some understand the delay, but he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass by with a great noise, and the elements will be destroyed with intense fire, and the earth and the works that are in it will be burned.
Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, what kind of people should you not be in holy conduct and godliness,
waiting and hastening the coming of the day of God, in which the heavens will be destroyed by fire and the elements will melt with intense heat!
But, according to his promise, we await new heavens and a new earth, in which justice dwells.
Therefore, beloved, since you await these things, diligently seek to be found by Him in peace, without spot and blameless,
and consider the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote you, according to the wisdom that was given to him.
Likewise in all his letters he speaks in them of this; in which there are some things difficult to understand, that the ignorant and unstable twist — as the rest of the Scriptures also twist — to their own perdition.
Therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on your guard, lest, dragged by the error of libertine men, you fall from your firmness;
Rather, grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory now and until the day of eternity. Amen.
Paul, Silvano and Timoteo: To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ:
Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
We always have to thank God for you, brothers, as is fair, because your faith increases greatly, and the love of each one of you towards others abounds more and more;
so that we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God, for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all the persecutions and afflictions that you endure.
This is an evident sign of God's just judgment, so that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are truly suffering.
For after all, it is right before God to give affliction to those who afflict you,
and give relief to you who are afflicted, and also to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flame of fire,
giving retribution to those who do not know God, and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
These will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, excluded from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power,
when He comes to be glorified in his saints on that day and to be admired among all who have believed; because our testimony has been believed by you.
To this end we also always pray for you, so that our God considers you worthy of your calling and fulfills every desire for goodness and the work of faith, with power,
so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
But regarding the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our meeting with Him, we beg you, brothers,
May you not be easily shaken in your way of thinking, nor be alarmed, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as if it were from us, in the sense that the day of the Lord has arrived.
Let no one deceive you in any way, because it will not come without the apostasy first coming and the man of sin, the son of perdition being revealed,
who opposes and exalts himself above everything that is called god or is the object of worship, so that he sits in the temple of God, presenting himself as if he were God.
Don't you remember that when I was still with you I was saying this to you?
And you know what is holding it back for now, to be revealed in due course.
Because the mystery of iniquity is already at work, only the one who stops it for now, will do it until he himself is removed from the middle.
And then that wicked one will be revealed, whom the Lord will kill with the spirit of his mouth, and will destroy with the brightness of his coming;
wicked whose coming is according to the activity of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deceit of iniquity for those who are lost, because they did not receive the love of the truth to be saved.
This is why God will send you a deceptive power, so that you believe in the lie,
so that all those who did not believe in the truth but were pleased with iniquity may be judged.
But we always have to thank God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth.
And it was for this that He called you through our gospel, to achieve the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, brothers, be firm and preserve the doctrines that were taught to you, already by word, or by our letter.
And that our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope by grace,
comfort your hearts and affirm you in every good deed and word.
Finally, brothers, pray for us, so that the word of the Lord will spread quickly and be glorified, as it also happened with you;
and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men, because not everyone has faith.
But faithful is the Lord who will strengthen and protect you from the evil one.
And we have confidence in the Lord regarding you, that you do and will do what we command.
May the Lord direct your hearts towards the love of God and towards the perseverance of Christ.
Now, brothers, we command you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to separate yourself from every brother who walks disorderly, and not according to the doctrine you received from us.
Well, you yourselves know how you should follow our example, because we do not act undisciplined among you,
nor did we eat anyone's bread in vain, but with labor and fatigue we labor day and night so as not to be a burden to any of you;
not because we have no right to it, but to offer ourselves as a model for you to follow our example.
Because even when we were with you we ordered this: If someone does not want to work, they should not eat either.
Because we hear that some of you are disorderly, without working, but they are getting into everything.
We command and exhort such people in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they work quietly to eat their own bread.
But you, brothers, do not tire of doing good.
And if anyone does not obey our teaching in this letter, point to such and do not associate with him, to be ashamed.
However, do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
And may the Lord of peace himself always grant you peace in all circumstances. The Lord be with you all.
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, and this is a distinctive sign in all my letters; that's how I write.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life in Christ Jesus,
Timothy, beloved son: Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a clear conscience as my ancestors did, that without ceasing, night and day, I remember you in my prayers,
wanting to see you, remembering your tears, to fill me with joy.
Because I keep in mind the sincere faith that is in you, which lived first in your grandmother Loida and in your mother Eunice, and I am sure in you too.
Therefore I remind you to fan the fire of the gift of God that is in you by the imposition of my hands.
Because God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, love and self-control.
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner, but participate with me in the afflictions for the gospel, according to the power of God,
who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his purpose and according to the grace that was given to us in Christ Jesus from eternity,
and which has now been manifested by the appearance of our Savior Jesus Christ, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
for which I was made a preacher, an apostle and a teacher.
Therefore I also suffer these things, but I am not ashamed; Because I know who I have believed in, and I am convinced that it is powerful to keep my deposit until that day.
Retain the standard of the sound words you have heard from me, in faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Guard, through the Holy Spirit that dwells in us, the treasure that has been entrusted to you.
You already know this, that all those in Asia have turned their backs on me, among them Figelo and Hermogenes.
Grant the Lord mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because many times he gave me refreshment and was not ashamed of my chains,
rather, when he was in Rome, he sought me eagerly and found me;
May the Lord grant you to find mercy from the Lord on that day. In addition, the services he provided at Ephesus, you know better.
You, then, my son, strengthen yourself in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, that instructs faithful men who are suitable to teach others as well.
He suffers hardships with me, like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No soldier on active duty is entangled in the affairs of daily life, in order to please the one who recruited him as a soldier.
And also the one who competes as an athlete, does not win the prize if he does not compete according to the rules.
The working farmer must be the first to receive his share of the fruits.
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, descendant of David, according to my gospel;
for which I suffer penalties, even imprisonment as a criminal; but the word of God is not caught.
Therefore, I endure everything for the love of the elect, so that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, and with it eternal glory.
Faithful word is this: That if we die with Him, we will also live with Him;
if we persevere, we will also reign with him; if we deny Him, He will also deny us;
if we are unfaithful, He remains faithful, because he cannot deny himself.
Remind them of this, solemnly instructing them in the presence of God, not to quarrel over words, which in no way takes advantage and leads listeners to ruin.
Try diligently to present yourself to God approved, as a worker who does not have to be ashamed, who precisely handles the word of truth.
Avoid empty and profane talk, because those given to them will lead more and more to wickedness,
and his word will spread like gangrene; among which are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
that they have deviated from the truth saying that the resurrection has already taken place, thus upsetting the faith of some.
However, the solid foundation of God remains firm, bearing this seal: The Lord knows those who are his, and: Let all who mention the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.
Now, in a large house there are not only glasses of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, and some for honor and others for disgrace.
Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to the Lord, prepared for every good work.
So flee from youthful passions and follow justice, faith, love and peace, with those who invoke the Lord with a pure heart.
But he rejects foolish and ignorant reasoning, knowing that it produces altercations.
And the Lord's servant should not be contentious, but kind to everyone, able to teach, suffered,
tenderly correcting those who oppose, just in case God gives them repentance that leads to full knowledge of the truth,
and coming to their senses, they escape the devil's snare, having been held captive by him to do his will.
But you must know this: that in the last days difficult times will come.
Because men will be lovers of themselves, greedy, boastful, arrogant, blasphemous, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, irreverent,
loveless, ruthless, slanderers, rampant, savage, haters of good,
traitors, impetuous, puffed up, lovers of pleasures instead of lovers of God;
having the appearance of pity, but having denied his power; avoid such.
Because among them are those who get into the houses and take captive little women loaded with sins, carried by various passions,
always learning, but they can never come to full knowledge of the truth.
And just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, in the same way they also oppose the truth; men of depraved mind, reprobate as regards faith.
But they will not progress any further, since their folly will be manifest to everyone, as also happened with that of those two.
But you have followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, perseverance,
persecutions, sufferings, like those that happened to me in Antioch, Iconium and Lystra. What persecutions I suffered! And from all of them the Lord delivered me.
And in truth, all those who want to live godly in Jesus Christ will be persecuted.
But evil men and impostors will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.
You, however, persist in the things that you have learned and of which you convinced yourself, knowing from whom you have learned them;
and that from childhood you have known the Holy Scriptures, which can give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
All Scripture is inspired by God and useful to teach, to rebuke, to correct, to instruct in righteousness,
so that the man of God is perfect, equipped for every good work.
I solemnly entrust you, in the presence of God and of Jesus Christ, who is to judge the living and the dead, by their manifestation and by their kingdom:
Preach the word; insist on time and out of time; reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers according to their own desires;
and they will turn their ears away from the truth, and will turn to myths.
But you, be sober in all things, suffer hardships, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.
For I am ready to be poured out as a drink offering, and the time for my departure has come.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
In the future the crown of justice is reserved for me that the Lord, the just Judge, will deliver to me on that day; and not only me, but also all who love his coming.
Try to come see me soon,
for Demas has abandoned me, having loved this present world, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescente went to Galacia and Tito to Dalmatia.
Only Lucas is with me. Take Marcos and bring him with you, because he is useful to me for the ministry.
But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
When you come, bring the cloak I left at Troas with Carpus, and the books, especially the scrolls.
Alejandro, the coppersmith, hurt me a lot; the Lord will repay you according to your deeds.
Take care of him too, for he vigorously opposes our teaching.
In my first defense, no one was by my side, but everyone abandoned me; that are not taken into account.
But the Lord was with me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation of the message would be fully fulfilled and that all the Gentiles would hear. And I was released from the lion's mouth.
The Lord will deliver me from all evil deeds and bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. To Him be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Say hi to Prisca and Aquila, and to Onesiphorus' house.
Erastus stayed at Corinth, but I left Trophimus ill at Miletus.
Try to come before winter. Eubulo greets you, also Pudente, Lino, Claudia and all the brothers.
The Lord be with your spirit. May the grace be with you.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 2. Indigenous languages ​​are those that come from the peoples existing in the national territory before the establishment of the Mexican State, in addition to those from other Indo-American peoples, equally pre-existing that have taken root in the national territory subsequently and that are recognized for possessing an ordered and systematic set of functional and symbolic oral forms of communication.
Transients
Second. The National Council of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​will be constituted within the six months following the publication of this Decree in the Official Gazette of the Federation. For this effect, the Secretary of Public Education will summon the directors and rectors of indigenous schools, institutions of higher education and universities, academic institutions, including among them specifically the Center for Research and Higher Studies in Social Anthropology, as well as civil organizations to that they make the proposal of their respective representatives to join the National Council of the Institute. Once these proposals have been received, the Secretary of Public Education, the representatives of the Secretaries of Finance and Public Credit, of the Secretary of Social Development, of the Secretary of Communications and Transportation, of the National Council for Culture and the Arts, of the National Indigenous Institute , of the Ministry of Foreign Relations, will resolve on the integration of the first National Council of the Institute that will serve for a period of one year. At the end of this term, the National Council must be integrated in the terms determined by the Statute, which must be issued by the first National Council within a period of six months from its installation.
What are indigenous peoples and communities?
Indigenous peoples are "those who descend from populations that inhabited the current territory of the country at the beginning of colonization and who retain their own, or part of them, social, economic, cultural and political institutions."
Indigenous communities are "those that form a social, economic and cultural unit, settled in a territory and that recognize their own authorities according to their uses and customs." Article 2 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States.
Most of the indigenous communities in Mexico base their organization on:
A collective territory, recognized as ancestral.
Decision making collectively in a general assembly.
The office system, in which the assembly assigns tasks that can be civil, religious, communal or others, that are carried out for the benefit of the community.
The tequio or faena, which is collective work in favor of the community.
Festivals and rites, which serve as an important element of social union.
The old man to the beloved Gaius, whom I truly love.
Beloved, I pray that you will prosper in everything as your soul prospers, and that you be in good health.
Well, I was very happy when some brothers came and bore witness to your truth, that is, how you walk in the truth.
I have no greater joy than this: hearing that my children walk in the truth.
Beloved, you are acting faithfully in what you do for the brothers, and especially when it comes to strangers;
for they bear witness to your love before the church. You will do well to help them continue their journey in a God-worthy way.
For they went out for the love of the Name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
Therefore, we must welcome such men, so that we are collaborators in favor of the truth.
I wrote something to the church, but Diotrefes, who likes to be the first among them, does not accept what we say.
For this reason, if I go, I will draw attention to the works he does, accusing us unjustly with malicious words; and not satisfied with this, he himself does not receive the brothers, forbids those who want to do so and expels them from the church.
Beloved, do not imitate evil, but good. He who does good is of God; He who does evil has not seen God.
Demetrius has a good testimony from everyone and from the truth itself; we also bear witness and you know that our witness is true.
I had many things to write to you, but I don't want to write them to you in pen and ink,
Well I hope to see you soon and we will talk face to face.
Peace be with you. Friends greet you. Say hello to friends, each by name.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 3. Indigenous languages ​​are an integral part of the national cultural and linguistic heritage. The plurality of indigenous languages ​​is one of the main expressions of the multicultural composition of the Mexican Nation.
Transients
Third. The catalog referred to in article 20 of the General Law on Linguistic Rights of Indigenous Peoples must be made within a year following the date on which the National Council of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​is established, in accordance with article previous transitory.
Political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples
The Organization of American States (OAS) ensures that the rights of indigenous peoples constitute an indispensable element for the present and future of humanity. The preservation of indigenous peoples contributes to the development, plurality and cultural diversity of our societies.
The American Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples recognizes that indigenous peoples have suffered historical injustices as a result, among other things, of colonization and having been dispossessed of their lands, territories and resources, which has impeded their development according to their own interests and needs.
Therefore, it is essential to respect and promote the rights that are specific to them, including their political rights, which are reflected in the political, economic and social structures of their culture; their spiritual traditions; its history and philosophy.
From this recognition derive the rights of indigenous peoples to participate in decision-making that affects their rights and environment, either directly or through representatives chosen in accordance with the institutions, norms, procedures or traditions recognized by them. .
However, the political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples and communities are as follows.
Right to difference
It is the recognition of their different forms of social organization, customs, languages, beliefs and traditions. When differentiated peoples coexist in a country, respect for its various forms of political, economic, legal and social organization is necessary.
Right to non-discrimination
It is a human right that requires equal and dignified treatment towards indigenous peoples and communities, where it is prohibited to rely on their language, clothing, social or economic condition to give them a treatment that excludes them or deprives them of their rights, either in the individual or collective scope.
Right to self-determination
It is the power that indigenous peoples and communities have to govern themselves, which means:
To be able to live under its forms of social, economic, political and cultural organization.
Apply its regulatory systems for the resolution of conflicts and the appointment of its authorities.
Establish priorities in the development programs of their communities and, where appropriate, take responsibility for them.
Preserve and enrich their culture and identity.
To choose representatives before the town councils in the municipalities with indigenous population.
Right to self-enrollment
It is a declaration of will of people or communities that, having a cultural, historical, political, linguistic or other link, decide to identify themselves as members of an indigenous people; its recognition does not depend on any external authority or institution, nor does it require more proof than its word.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 4. The indigenous languages ​​recognized in the terms of this Law and Spanish are national languages ​​due to their historical origin, and have the same validity in their territory, location and context in which they are spoken.
Transients
Fourth. The first sociolinguistic census must be carried out and published within a period of two years from the entry into force of this Decree. The subsequent ones will be carried out together with the General Population and Housing Census.
Access of indigenous women and men to justice
Access to justice is the foundation for the effective exercise and protection of all the other human rights that people enjoy. It implies the possibility of accessing the defense of a right before a competent court. To be effective requires equal treatment before the law and non-discrimination. Likewise, the judges must take into account the cultural, economic and social differences of the women and men who are members of the indigenous peoples and communities and, in particular, their situation of vulnerability due to conditions of gender, race, poverty and exclusion, eliminating the obstacles that prevent them from accessing justice.
Right to consultation
It refers to the State's obligation to consult the opinion of indigenous peoples regarding all those decisions that involve their interest, be it in their political, social, economic and cultural aspects. The consultation is compulsory on any law or measure that may affect them directly or indirectly, from before it is approved, so that, in a prior and informed manner, they express their consent.
Consultations must be carried out through the representative institutions of the peoples, which in the case of Mexico is usually the general community assembly.
Language rights
To guarantee full access to justice for indigenous communities, as well as to preserve and enrich their languages, the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch (tepjf) determined that, during a trial, the judge must appoint an interpreter and carry out the translations corresponding to each stage, when justified.
For example, in 2014 and 2015, the tepjf requested the support of the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​(Inali) to translate and interpret summaries of some sentences in the indigenous language (s) spoken in the communities. involved in the trial, so that both the Spanish version and the indigenous language versions could be broadcast, primarily by loudspeaker and through the mechanisms best known to the community that are commonly used to transmit information or messages of interest.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 5. The State through its three orders of government, -Federation, Federal Entities and municipalities-, in the areas of their respective competences, will recognize, protect and promote the preservation, development and use of national indigenous languages.
Transients
Fifth. The Chamber of Deputies of the Congress of the Union will establish within the Budget of Expenditures of the Federation, the corresponding item to the National Institute of Indigenous Languages, so that it meets the objectives established in this law.
Political participation
In order to establish the territorial demarcation of the single-member electoral districts in the national territory, the location of indigenous peoples and communities should be taken into account, whenever possible, in order to favor their political participation.
Participation in national politics is also a right of indigenous peoples and, to make that a reality, twenty-eight (28) "indigenous districts" have been created, representing only 53% of the indigenous population. Likewise, of the people who have been elected in these districts, few belong to indigenous communities or self-register as such, similar to what Jaime Martínez Luna, community member of Guelatao de Juárez, Oaxaca, characterizes as "community representatives".
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 6. The State will adopt and implement the necessary measures to ensure that the mass media disseminates the reality and the linguistic and cultural diversity of the Mexican Nation. In addition, it will allocate a percentage of the time available in the concessioned mass media, according to the applicable legislation, for the broadcasting of programs in the various national languages ​​spoken in its coverage areas, and of cultural programs in which it is promoted. the literature, oral traditions and the use of the national indigenous languages ​​of the various regions of the country.
Transients
Sixth. The state congresses will analyze, in accordance with their ethnolinguistic specificities, the appropriate adaptation of the corresponding laws in accordance with the provisions of this law.
Trial for the protection of the citizen's political-electoral rights
Once the political-electoral rights of the members of the indigenous peoples and communities have been defined, there is a mechanism that guarantees the protection of such rights, as described below.
The means of challenge by which the fulfillment of indigenous rights can be demanded is citizen judgment.
It is a legal means to challenge acts issued by the authorities, when political-electoral rights or any other right related to political participation is affected.
As an example, the rights that can be protected in this means of defense, in the case of an election where political parties participate, could be, among others, the following:
Vote. This right may be affected when it is considered that some authority issued an act that prevents choosing or participating in the election of the people who will be the new authorities.
Be voted. The affectation to this right could appear when some authority or political party emitted an act that prevents participation as an applicant, candidate or candidate for any representative position.
Freedom of association. There will be an affectation to this right when a political party or political group prevents participating or being part of them.
Vote in popular consultations. When there are issues in which citizens are consulted, they have the right to participate in it and cast their vote.
Indigenous communities and their members can go to electoral justice to protect their rights in various situations, including when their rights to:
The consultation. State authorities should consult indigenous peoples and communities when they are in charge of making a decision, whether administrative or legislative, the effects of which directly affect the particular way of life of indigenous peoples. Failure to conduct a consultation or that it does not meet the minimum standards can be challenged before the electoral authority.
Vote and be voted. Denying the right to vote or to be voted for women, the elderly or the elderly are violations of their rights that can be challenged. Likewise, lawsuits can be filed when there are irregularities in the holding of the assembly, when the tequio is not respected, among other cases.
Choose their authorities under internal regulatory systems. The self-determination of indigenous peoples and communities includes the possibility of choosing the system under which they intend to elect their authorities. Therefore, a refusal of the authority to the request of an indigenous community to migrate can be challenged.
These are just a few examples that can impede political participation; But citizen judgment is also useful to protect any other right when the development of an election is affected, such as freedom of expression or the right to petition.
When a case such as those mentioned above is presented, a citizen trial claim can be prepared and filed. For this, there are four days, which will begin counting the day after the authority's act was known.
The application must be signed by the members of the community or their legal representative and must be submitted directly to the authority that issued this act. For example, if the act was issued by the city council, the demand must be filed with the official party of said authority.
It is very important that the lawsuit meets these requirements, because otherwise the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch may dismiss it, which means that it will not analyze whether or not the act violates rights.
In the case of indigenous communities, in the citizen trial the Court must "fill" any deficiency that the complaint has and specify the act that affected their rights, that is, that the authority has the obligation to correct, complete or integrate arguments that have been presented defectively, with the sole limitation that the cause of request can be clearly appreciated when studying the facts described in the brief presented.
The writing can be simple, even handmade, and the most important thing is that the facts that are damaging the political-electoral rights of people belonging to an indigenous community be specified. It can be in relation to an election under the political party system or in cases related to the appointment of community authorities under their own regulatory system.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 7. Indigenous languages ​​will be valid, as well as Spanish, for any matter or procedure of a public nature, as well as to fully access public management, services and information. The State is responsible for guaranteeing the exercise of the rights provided for in this article, in accordance with the following:
a) In the Federal District and the other federal entities with municipalities or communities that speak indigenous languages, the corresponding Governments, in consultation with the native and migrant indigenous communities, will determine which of their administrative dependencies will adopt and implement the measures so that the required instances they can attend to and resolve issues that arise in indigenous languages.
b) In the municipalities with communities that speak indigenous languages, the measures referred to in the preceding paragraph will be adopted and implemented, in all its instances.
The Federation and the federal entities will have available and disseminate through texts, audiovisual and computer media: laws, regulations, as well as the contents of the programs, works, services directed at indigenous communities, in the language of their corresponding beneficiaries.
Transients
Seventh. In relation to section VI of article 13 of this Law, in the event that the corresponding educational authorities do not have immediately trained personnel, they will have a term of up to two years, from the publication of the this Law, to train the necessary personnel. In order to fully comply with said provision, the normal ones will include a degree in indigenous education.
What should communities or their members do if they consider that their political-electoral rights are not respected?
When any electoral authority, political party or other government authority violates their electoral-political rights, the indigenous community, any of its members or their representatives must:
First. Responsible electoral authority
Go to the responsible electoral authority, for example: table of debates, municipal presidency, municipal electoral council, state electoral institute, among others, to request respect for their political-electoral rights.
Express in writing the rights violated and indicate what they want the authority to resolve. It is not necessary to go to a lawyer.
In your case, mention your name and the name of the person who represents you legally.
Indicate the address where they can be notified of the resolution.
It is the obligation of the electoral authorities who are aware of indigenous matters, that their sentences be communicated to the members of indigenous communities and peoples, in accordance with the specific conditions of each place, so that they are in a position to have an adequate defense, with respect to of the acts that may cause them harm.
It is sufficient that you identify yourself as indigenous for the authority to take into account that there is a cultural, historical, political, linguistic or other link with your community.
Mention the authority that violates your rights.
Point out the facts, grievances and the articles allegedly violated.
The Superior Chamber has determined that, in the case of indigenous communities and peoples, it is the obligation of the electoral authority to supply not only the deficiency of the reasons for grievances, but also their total absence and to specify the act that really affects.
Offer tests that help verify what is requested.
Sign your claim or, where appropriate, put your fingerprint.
Second. Local or state electoral court
If the electoral administrative authority does not decide in favor of the community or its members, the next step is to go to the state electoral court, which will review the determinations of the institute or the communal authority. For this, the following must be met:
Submit a demand brief to the electoral authority that issued the resolution or act that it considers violates your indigenous rights.
The demand brief must be submitted within the period established by local law, which is generally within four days from the day after the act or resolution is known.
The authority or the political party that receives a demand that is presented against its own acts or resolutions must give notice to the institute or the court, specifying: person who is demanding, act or contested sentence, exact date and time of its reception.
Third. Regional Chamber of the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
When the resolution of the state electoral court is not favorable to the community, you can go to the Regional Chamber to promote a trial or file an appeal, as the case may be, following the same steps that have been previously mentioned.
Fourth. Superior Chamber of the Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
As previously stated, when political-electoral rights are affected, the legal means to challenge acts issued by the authorities is the trial for the protection of the citizen's political-electoral rights (JDC), which will be heard by the Electoral Tribunal of the Judicial Power of the Federation through one of its Regional Chambers.
However, there are particular cases in which, when some assumptions are updated, the Superior Chamber may exercise reinforced judicial protection and thus attend to technical obstacles and geographic, social and cultural circumstances that may generate a circumstance of legal discrimination among the indigenous population, such as are the distance and the means of communication of the population where the actor's domicile is located, in relation to the place where the authority's domicile is located, before which the appeal is filed, or some other situation that limits real access and effective to the jurisdiction of the State.
Likewise, in cases of urgency and if some requirements are met, the decisions of the state electoral institute can be sued directly before the Regional Chambers or the Superior Chamber, "jumping" to the electoral courts of the states (per saltum), such and as it happened in the following case.
On the other hand, the Superior Chamber will exclusively hear the appeal for reconsideration (rec) against the decision of the Regional Chambers when the non-application of an electoral law has been determined as it is considered contrary to the Constitution. This resource is known as reconsideration.
Chapter I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 8. No person may be subject to any type of discrimination because of or by virtue of the language they speak.
Transients
Eighth. All provisions that contravene this Decree are repealed
Electoral organizations that intervene in the promotion and protection of the political-electoral rights of indigenous peoples and communities
National Electoral Institute
The organization of the elections is in charge of electoral authorities both at the federal and state levels, which are obliged to collaborate in the development of this task. The federal authorities in the matter are responsible for organizing, validating and qualifying the election of the President of the United Mexican States, as well as the federal senators and deputies that make up the Congress of the Union. The National Electoral Institute (INE) is the body in charge of organizing the federal elections. The INE also organizes, in coordination with the electoral institutes of the federal entities, the local elections in the states of the republic and Mexico City.
Specialized Prosecutor for the Attention of Electoral Crimes
The Specialized Prosecutor for the Attention of Electoral Crimes (Fepade) is an organ of the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic that prevents, investigates and sanctions federal electoral crimes.
Electoral crimes are acts that violate the principles of universal, free, secret, personal and non-transferable voting, and that affect the organization of elections and the fairness of this process.
In the states and Mexico City, there are organs within the local prosecutors' offices that must investigate electoral crimes in local elections.
Electoral crimes are, among others:
Vote more than once in the same election.
Hinder the voting or its count.
Vote or pretend to vote with a false voter registration card or that of another person.
Collect, at any time, citizens' voting credentials.
Put pressure on people when they are in the polls to vote for a certain candidate on Election Day.
Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Branch
The Electoral Tribunal, through its various Regional Chambers or the Superior Chamber, guarantees the political-electoral rights of all Mexicans, as stated throughout this manual.
Among the constituent bodies of the Tribunal is the Electoral Public Defender for Indigenous Peoples and Communities, in charge of providing free electoral defense and advisory services in favor of indigenous peoples and communities, as well as the people who comprise them.
Chapter II - ON THE RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS LANGUAGE SPEAKERS
ARTICLE 9. It is the right of every Mexican to communicate in the language of which he is a speaker, without restrictions in the public or private sphere, orally or in writing, in all his social, economic, political, cultural, religious and any other activities.
Public Electoral Defender for Indigenous Peoples and Communities
In recent years, the Electoral Tribunal has made progress in protecting the rights of indigenous peoples and communities, placing greater emphasis on the need to judge with an intercultural perspective. This helped electoral judges to effectively protect the rights of indigenous peoples and their members, including the right to self-determination; in addition to providing the widest guarantee and protection of the rights of access to justice, defense and hearing.
To facilitate effective access to justice, the Electoral Tribunal created the Electoral Public Defender for Indigenous Peoples and Communities, whose objective is to facilitate and bring indigenous citizens, under equal conditions, access to the courts, to reduce legal disadvantages and seek effective judicial protection through free advisory and defense services in electoral matters in favor of the peoples, indigenous communities and people who integrate them, recognizing at all times the constitutional right to assistance through interpreters and defenders who have knowledge of the various languages ​​and cultures.
Although many rings God gave me
not a finger touched me
So in the belly I bring them!
Earthworm or worm.
Let's see if you give! They call me a thief, that's my costume:
Since baby I have gray hair and a great mask
The raccoon
Guessed? He donated fire to humanity.
The tail is bare. He always walks with tlachique, or other stolen food.
In the face of danger, the dead body stinks or flies.
The raccoon.
Will you guess It is loading the planet. One more clue goes to you: its skin has furrows of cornfield, although you will not touch it.
One last clue, and nothing more: the slime doesn't fall for anything ... will you guess?
The crocodile.
What animal since childhood has wrinkles on its neck?
The buzzard.
Guess riddle. Daily, with the house in tow rests.
The snail.
I'm always in the gossip. My green suit is stunning, with a tall hat and an elegant toupee.
The cotorro.
Neither hand nor tool do I want. I drill trees, and I'm not a carpenter man. More in the tree ...
The woodpecker.
Guess what! He knows how to sing, although he cannot read or count. In the end, it will always wake you up.
The rooster.
You already know who I am? Little boy of a thousand colors, I go to the place of the clouds. I delight in the sweetness of a thousand flowers with its flavors.
The hummingbird.
I tell you once: in his dance he winds his everlasting riddle. Dirty clothes change in their journey. I tell you again: everlasting riddle meanders in its dance. Dirty clothes change in their journey.
The snake.
Because it shines with a tinkling intensity, at home, neither candle, nor light, nor electricity.
The Firefly.
Let's see if you know who he is! He crawls like babies when he is old. As a young man he stands on two feet.
The man.
Birds fly in the sky.
Flowers are pretty.
There is a plate of beans to eat.
The grasshopper jumps away.
Banana trees are on the irrigated land.
We drink water daily.
The cat eats little mice and rats.
It is a narrow road, but it reaches a big city.
Every morning the women throw tortillas.
She has long hair.
He is a very small boy.
The rooster likes to crow
Here comes another person.
Last year and the year before last we went to Mexico.
It is a good house; the wind does not enter.
Poor us if we had no hands!
The candle lights us up.
They say that if we have a good head we will learn soon.
There's the coin that he dropped, he says.
His dad already gave him permission; you can go where you want to go.
The bird sings very beautifully.
The turkeys are big. They have a lot of meat.
The rabbit runs fast.
There are squirrels in the watering ground.
People make palm hats.
The goats walk on the hill every day.
We pinch the ears, and then we carry them to the house.
When the ears are already in the house, then we shelled them.
Green beans are tasty and we eat them
Sometimes there is a rainbow in the sky.
If it rained and there was a good bean harvest, we are happy.
You have to be careful when you catch the prickly pear because it has spines.
Chickens lay eggs
It is not difficult to climb in a mogote, because it is not high.
The honey that bees make is sweet.
When they celebrate we eat goat meat.
The sun shines
Here's a dime that people used to use before.
The chick comes out of the shell, and then it starts to chirp.
An orphan is one who has neither mother nor father.
The water in the pot is boiling.
If there are no jobs to do, then the children will play.
We shear the sheep.
If we injure our knee, then we seek medicine to heal ourselves.
The hare is bigger than the rabbit.
If the nose sticks, it hurts a lot.
The fish go through the waters of the sea.
When it flashes, it thunders too.
There is a bird's nest in the tree.
We write on paper for people to read.
Some chickens do not have feathers on their necks.
We like to sit in the shade of large trees.
Can you eat ten mangoes?
We add onion to the beans that are cooking.
If there are no clouds, it cannot rain.
If it rains, then the cornfield plants will revive.
The comal needs to be heated, so that the tortillas can be cooked.
Foxes come at night and grab chickens.
The blankets are made of spun wool.
There is a ravine called Barranca de Estaca.
Swallows say they clear the clouds.
Swallows say they clear the clouds.
They say that the swallows fly a lot and cut the clouds, so that it no longer rains.
The swallow is the animal that gathers the clouds.
The swift clears the clouds.
They say that when an owl screams and says "juu juu", it is that a person who lives near where it screamed is going to die.
They say that if the owl cries near the house, one of us will die or be hit by a very serious illness.
They say that if the owl screams near a person's house, something bad will happen to it.
When the owl squeals, it warns that something bad is going to happen.
When the night hawk screams, they say it is going to rain.
They say that in October there are woodpeckers that call the ice.
They say that the hawk shouts "quili quili quili" and calls the ice.
The cojolite is a witch animal; warns when an evil comes.
They say that the lovebird screams "Conce" (Concepción).
If the venturía turns its back on us, then they say it will not go well for us.
If the ventur turns its back on us, we know it will go badly for us on the day, they say.
If the venturilla is in front of us, they say that we will have good luck.
At dawn the venturilla says: "Let the old animal wake up!".
When the cenzontle sings, they say it is calling the rain.
They say that the cuique is a witch animal because when it screams, people suffer some evil.
They say that the cuique hates the world when it screams.
They say that the cuique calls the rain.
If a woman passes over a viper, the animal will become numb.
They say that one night a boy was crying and the woman's husband got up and saw that a viper was suckling and that the baby had its tail in its mouth and sucked it, but nothing came out.
Drink our blood.
They say that the praying mantis is not good because it enters the woman and casts her calf inside her,
and it is seen that she is pregnant, but not that but that animal is inside her.
They say that the crickets call the rain.
If someone looks at or points a finger at a small pumpkin, it stops growing and then rots.
If we eat beans on the day of planting,
Many cuitlacoches will come out, they say.
You should not go over the plow because it is not good!
They say that if the dogs howl, people are going to get sick, or suffer misfortune.
They say the dog howls, and it's not right because someone is going to die.
If we catch the tail of a cat, then at night it will bring a viper to where we are lying.
They say that if the children hold the cat, they will get hunchbacked fast.
They say that if someone puts a bucket of water where the hen is brooding her eggs, the chicks will not come out well, but the eggs will have pure water inside.
I have a squatter from the rain and it makes me very sleepy.
There are people who become lightning strikes and when it rains they hit their enemies.
The rain showered us.
The sky has been covered with small clouds, and one of these days hail will fall.
They say that when the cloud of cold falls on the hill, it will be very cold at night.
People swept away by the current do not rest; It comes and goes in the river where the current carried it away.
God shook the world.
rainbow
If we point our finger at the rainbow, the finger rots.
If we pass near where the rainbow is, it swallows us.
You should not go near the place where the rainbow is, because it can swallow you.
If you cross the rainbow where the rain comes from, the water doesn't come here anymore, they say.
swirl
A whirlpool passed where he was going,
and he wrapped it up, and he got very sick because a demon hit him, they say.
It will be very hot because the Sun has a halo around it.
They say that a lot of air will run because the Sun has a halo around it.
When the moon is tilted, it will rain, they say.
The Moon is completely red because it carries heat, and it will be hot in the coming days.
When the new moon comes, any pain increases.
When there is a solar eclipse, pregnant women do not go outside because the Sun eats the creature's fingers and is not born healthy.
droppings from the stars
At night we see the stars fall,
but they say that it is not the stars themselves, but their excrement.
Droppings fell from the stars.
Every Friday in Lent is a holy day.
goblin of the mount
They say that at night the ghosts come out, and at noon the bandoliers come out.
He went to the mountain and fell asleep,
and when he woke up
a woman who looked very pretty was standing there,
but it was a shoulder bag.
A brigand cheated on the boy, who lost his mind and suffered from amnesia.
A bandit hid the goat and he disappeared.
If you return to your house, do not sleep with your wife at all because she will become a bandolier.
The elves
They say that the goblins hide the lambs for two or three days, and then they take them out.
They ask the earth for permission to light a fire,
and they throw brandy on the ground
and they also take it,
and then they put their pots on.
A person who finishes his house opens it
and toss the goblin portion at the base of all the forks.
People of yesteryear heated the temazcal so that newly-born women could bathe.
They say that wells and temazcales are very dangerous places.
They say that the temazcales are dangerous, and if a person stones them, they will get sick.
If a woman eats a banana on the day she has children, she will have twins.
You should not eat lovebird meat because if you eat it, you will not have milk for your children.
A woman who is giving birth
and he is in a lot of pain,
take zoapatle
and then the baby is born.
A newly born woman,
if you take chicken broth,
then he regains his strength.
If a newly born woman takes atole of dough,
the womb will be infected.
She cannot eat yellow mole because her baby was born and this food is infectious.
Your baby was delivered by caesarean section and you cannot eat anything until you have closed your wound.
The baby's knee dropped because they moved him a lot.
If the baby's knee falls off, he will become ill.
If a baby's nap falls, we must help him to make up.
If the hair is not cut from the forehead to the children, they say that they will become cross-eyed.
If you bend down to drink water from a well, the spirit of the well will slap you, and you will get sick, say the great ladies.
She was hot and went to fetch her water, and the river steam caught up with her and she got sick.
When it rains,
steam comes out of the ground,
and if the children step on where the steam comes out,
they say they get sick.
When children stretch, they say white spots appear on their faces.
The devil bit me very ugly.
Blood accumulates inside the bone and that is why it hurts.
He felt like an egg, and they say a yellow bean came out of his mouth.
If the baby's knee falls off, he will become ill.
His testicles fell out because he lifted very heavy things.
If we chew ocote resin, they say that the teeth become firm.
Do not walk much in the sun because they will soon have lice.
If they don't put on their girdles when they do heavy lifting, their bellies and backs start to hurt.
They say that you have to give tortilla with holy grass to the dogs so they don't get angry.
If we wash our hands with cold water after grinding beans,
blood pools on the hands.
If we bathe in cold water,
the blood thickens.
But if we bathe with pure hot water,
blood gets very thin
and then it comes out a lot through the nose.
The curandero takes the person's hand and says what illness they are suffering from.
He was sick, and he looked for a fortune teller to find out who had cursed him.
She reads the deck
to find out what the child is suffering from.
The cuajilote is medicinal; We chew it when we have angina.
The herb of the mule is a medicine.
When we have a stomach ache, we boil three twigs, take and make up our stomach.
Aloe is medicinal
and we can take it when we have kidneys.
Immortelle flower is medicinal; When our eyes burn, we squeeze it and pour the juice into our eyes.
They say that if children have worms,
We must give them rue tea to be thrown.
The women put the soot that hangs from the ceiling into the wounds so that they heal faster.
When we have cloths on our faces, we rub the veins of the armpits, chest and shoulders.
When your back hurts, look for turpentine, and put it with a rag where it hurts, and it will disappear.
"He received treatment, and cannot eat everything.
"
The boy's mother prohibited him from eating chili because he was ill.
If we have been hurt anywhere, we should not eat pork because it is infectious.
The palm is infectious.
He is calling her soul because she is sick.
The sorcerer rubs an egg on the body of a sick person.
He cleanses the sick man with medicinal plants.
He cleanses the sick man with medicinal plants.
He cleaned it with herbs.
The devil hit her and she's sick, and she's going to be cured with strong medicine.
They say that the boy fell into the river, and began to get sick, and his parents went to collect his horror, and then he composed himself.
I was bullied by a bull
and it scared me a lot,
and she collected my horror
and they threw a chicken for the goblin portion.
Here I brought you your portions; all of you gather together, and eat; and release my relative to come back with me.
They say that on full moon nights the naguals become animals.
They say there were two men who became coyotes at midnight.
There are naguals who take advantage of the rain
and they become lightning bolts to go kill their enemies.
People are afraid of witches, because if they spit on you, they will get sick, they say.
The warlock makes a figure, which he uses to curse people.
When they get very angry with another person, they buy candles and curse him.
Put the plate of food in the middle of the entrance, and step over it when leaving and entering.
People who are swept away by the current do not rest; It comes and goes in the river where the current carried it away.
They say that people who fall into a ravine and die, their soul just stays there
They are not saved, but are left suffering.
He died, and they say that his soul is imprisoned because he did not behave well in this world.
on November 2 the souls return to the house where they died
At the Todos Santos party, among the family we give away tamales and fruit because they say that the souls of the deceased arrive and they also eat them.
So we go to leave some tortillas at our relatives' house, and they give us fruit in turn.
If a person eats a lot, his belly inflates and he explodes.
They say that tantrums get the smell of chili when it is toasted, and they cough and sneeze.
They say he craved an egg, and a yellow pimple came out of his mouth.
If we eat the fruit of the canelilla, they say that we are going to be very poor.
It has two crowns and they say it will be very difficult.
You will have a lot of money because you have moles on your face and neck, they say.
They say that if we study a lot, we are going to be hairless.
They say our brains melt and mucus runs down our noses.
There is a rooster on my neck.
Animals are climbing inside your foot.
You sneeze and people say your child is reminding you.
Who is remembering you?
They accepted the favor of the dream
They say that people will become very poor if they slit their palm at night.
They say that cat poop is the chocolate of the catrin.
He loaded the years on her.
We will hug the saint and lie down, and if the tremor comes, we will die with her, people said.
They say that girls should not play with acorns because when they add their nixtamal, the dough is chewy.
You must be a good person.
You must be a good person. When you are eating, and someone arrives, do not hide the food, but share with them, even if it is little.
At lunchtime we always have to set aside a bit of the stew because another person may suddenly arrive.
When we have, we must lend because in the future we will need these people to help us.
We must get up early to face our problems well.
The person who dedicates himself to working his land well will always have food
People who rush to work go a long way.
There is no other day like today to sow
The day is over, but the work is not over yet.
It does not. Another day will come tomorrow.
Tomorrow will come too.
People who obey their parents will do well.
Honor your mother and father who always teach you the good.
You must be good; don't fall in love with your relative.
Fighting people harm themselves, and they won't live long.
If we are good people, we will have a long life.
One does not finish realizing, and one dies.
In problems our eyes open.
One must think how to live in the future.
What we say we are going to do, we must do later.
It is easy to speak, but it does cost.
We must eat well now that we are in good health.
We should only do what we are going to eat today.
You are a lion ant face.
You are a ghost head.
You are an animal.
You look like a viper because you stick your tongue out.
You eat like a pig.
It looks like a mouse ate your tongue that you can't speak.
Shut up, or I'm going to put bitter grass in your mouth.
We are afraid the coyote will come and eat you.
Don't talk to strangers because if you do, they will take you.
Don't you have ears?
How many ears do you have that you don't understand?
You walk slowly like a duck.
Whether or not they are going to be scolded,
Just listen!
"You dishonor us"
dads tell a disobedient son.
Who are you to think like that?
Do not be lazy or your habit will stick and you will be like this all your life!
Don't follow your bad example
Don't hang out with that lady, or her bad example will stick with you
In the future he will suffer, and he will know how things are.
She has her hands on her gate; does not grip the palm.
The godparents and the parents of both [boyfriends]
They give them advice saying that they should have respect and that they should take care of each other.
Don't despise each other!
Get married and get along and live in peace forever!
Receive a beautiful, good and precious thing
and go hear the mass
and take care of each other.
The bride and groom were linked.
May they always be united!
Let them stay together forever!
The drunk said to his wife,
"Do you want me to hit you?"
Let him eat his fist!
Confess all the sins you did, to see if God receives you because you are suffering a lot.
Don't scare me away; on the contrary, ask us to be well here.
He is gone forever.
He died and already went to the hill.
In the future we will receive the consequences of what we are doing
He received what he deserved.
He received what he deserved.
He looked for his own problems.
Now he found his lesson
She herself caused her own death
It is sweeter than your honey.
It doesn't happen because it's still sweet.
Talk about lips, not heart.
What does your heart say?
What does your rotten heart say?
Thank God we woke up well another day
This is life.
How difficult is it to live in this world!
Don't worry because we want work.
How good you fell!
It was established because it already has three sons.
ANIMALS
In Mexico City there are many caged animals.
These animals have been brought from other countries so that people can get to know them.
This division of the book shows us some of the animals found in the Chapultepec Zoo.
The bear's body is very large and its tail is very short.
Her nails are long
and with them you can dig the earth.
His hair is thick
black or brown.
The little bears that live in cold land
the big yellowish
The bear likes to play.
Can swim
and climb the trees.
Eat honey, fruit, tree roots, grass, and mice.
In the winter the bear sleeps and eats nothing
and he doesn't eat again until he wakes up in the spring.
In the winter the hatchlings stop.
Tiger
The tiger is the biggest cat there is.
You can beat the lion.
Lives in Africa and India.
Your skin is yellow listed
and lives in the forest.
One beef is finished in five days.
The tiger is very brave and very smart.
The children remain with their mother until they are three years old.
She teaches them how to get their food.
Caribu
The deer that lives where it is very cold
is very large
It is called a caribou.
It can work like the horse.
He does not feel cold because his hair is very thick.
His legs are long and so he does not get into the snow but walks over it. When there is snow, the caribou digs for the grasses that grow below. Tendons are used as thread.
The male has very large horns.
People can eat caribou meat
make clothes with the skin
drink milk.
Caribou is native to Canada.
Wolf
The wolf lives in France, Italy, Spain, the Balkans, Russia, Asia, Canada, the United States, Alaska, and Mexico.
He is like a big dog, but he is very brave and very clever.
The male, the female and their children walk together
and they can kill a beef.
They travel long distances
to look for their food.
The wolf eats rabbits, mice, and dead animals.
You can also catch fish where the water is not very deep.
The wolf is afraid of man and when it is scared it abandons its cubs.
If one of them is injured or dies, the others eat it.
The wolf howls at night.
Call
The llama lives in the mountains of South America.
His hair is white, black, dark brown or colored, and very thick
It is used to make cloth and ropes.
The male is used as a beast of burden because he can walk on difficult trails where other animals cannot pass. If his load is very heavy, he lies down and does not walk.
When he gets angry, he mixes his food with saliva and spits it out at the man who made him angry.
Kangaroo
The kangaroo lives in Australia.
The kangaroo's hands are very short but the legs are long and the tail is very thick.
Sometimes it sits on its tail and legs.
The kangaroo can jump well.
When he walks, he can jump like three meters, but when he runs, he can jump like six meters.
The kangaroo can run faster than the dog.
The head of the kangaroo is like that of a rabbit. His ears are very long.
When their young are born, they are very small and look like worms.
They get into the female's bag and stay there until they are big.
The kangaroo eats grass.
Camel
The camel lives in Africa, Asia and China
where the climate is very dry.
It can work like four days without eating or drinking.
He keeps the butter on his back.
There are camels that have two humps on their backs. Others have only one.
You can close your noses so the sand doesn't get in when it's windy.
The camel kneels when they are going to carry it.
It can carry about 275 kilos of cargo.
The camel is very silly, because it eats any grass,
and he doesn't know if they can poison him.
Fabrics and brushes are made from his hair.
People drink their milk and eat their meat.
Chimpanzee
The chimpanzee lives in Africa.
It is a monkey similar to man.
He is tall, his hands are long, and he has no tail.
(The chimpanzee) lives above the trees
where it makes its nest to sleep.
It can walk on the ground.
When he walks, he does it with his hands and feet.
Chimpanzee is very shy and does not harm people
but when he is wounded he is very dangerous.
He is very intelligent and soon learns what he sees.
Eat bananas and other fruits.
Buffalo
The buffalo is like a bull, but bigger. He is very brave.
Its horns are large and it can fight an elephant.
Lives in India, Europe, China, Egypt, Australia, the Philippine Islands, and New Guinea.
He likes to immerse himself in the water for a long time and only sticks his head out.
It eats grass and an old buffalo watches over the herd when it is eating.
The buffalo can be tamed and is used to plow land.
There is a bird that cares for the buffalo, looking for worms on the skin and eating them;
alerts you when an enemy comes.
Lion
The lion lives in Africa and India.
When the male lion is five or seven years old, the mane grows on its neck;
not the female.
The tail is very long and at the tip it has a lock of hair.
Its mouth is so big that it fits a person's head.
The female has two children.
The male and female teach their children to kill to eat.
They live like forty years.
The lion is very lazy and is not afraid of anything
The lion sleeps during the day and hunts the animals it will eat at night.
Hippopotamus
The hippopotamus lives in Africa.
It is very large and its skin is about two inches thick.
Its head, mouth, and teeth are very large.
Although its body is very thick, its legs are small.
Also his ears and eyes are small.
In the day he gets into the water and sleeps there
You can close your noses and ears to keep water out.
but he sticks his nose out from time to time.
"At night he goes out to eat grass."
Leopard
The leopard lives in Africa and Asia.
Is not very big,
but it is just under a meter and a half long.
Its tail is very long.
It is mottled,
making it difficult to see it in the forest.
Her skin is very expensive.
The leopard can climb trees
It can kill deer, calves, pigs, children and sometimes large people.
Zebra
The zebra is like a horse, but it has another color.
It is striped black and white
It has no hair on its tail, only a little on the tip.
Its legs are small like those of the donkey.
It can be used as a horse but is never fully tamed.
People who live where there are zebras eat their meat. With the skin. They make huaraches and bags.
lives in Africa
but now there are very few, because people have killed many.
Rhino
The rhino lives in Africa and Asia.
It is one and a half meters high.
The body of this animal is very thick and heavy
Its skin is very thick and its neck is very folded.
In its snout it has a horn with which it fights and knocks down saplings.
Live where there is a lot of water.
Eat grass and fruit.
Its skin is so thick that bullets do not go through it. To kill them people use bullets of another metal.
The rhino can live about fifty years.
Giraffe
The giraffe lives in Africa where it is very hot.
You don't need to drink a lot of water.
She is very tall and has a very long neck.
His eyes are too oblique to see back and forth,
and so it is difficult to catch it.
Men who want to catch it ride horses and lasso their legs when running.
The giraffe's tongue is about half a meter long and with it it takes the leaves of the trees even if they are very high.
The giraffe does not usually eat grass from the ground.
Elephant
The elephant is the largest land animal there is.
It weighs about 3,200 kilos
and it lacks little to be four meters high.
Its trunk is very long but very strong.
With it he takes the things and puts them in his mouth to eat.
He has two long fangs and with these he fights
Its fangs are very expensive;
can be sold for $ 3,000 each.
Although it cannot see well, the elephant can hear and smell very well.
It can be tamed to work and assemble it.
Live like 120 years and never forget a thing
Although it has been a long time since he was mistreated,
and if he finds the person who did it, he will attack him
Lives in Africa, Asia, India and Burma.
Different animals live in the forests of the Republic of Mexico.
This division of the book shows us some of the animals found in the Republic of Mexico.
Lynx
The lynx lives in Tibet and North America.
It looks like the cat.
Its tail is very small, but its fur is furry, thick and very expensive.
It is very bad and very shy.
When he wants to attack any animal he immediately growls.
The lynx growls when it attacks either a squirrel, sheep, goat, mouse or bird.
Sometimes the lynx hides and when an animal passes near it, it grabs it to eat it.
Jaguar
The jaguar has two names.
Also called a panther.
There is in South America.
Looks like a big cat
and eats the horse, the lamb and the worms of the rotten sticks.
When you chase him, then he attacks.
Skunk
The skunk lives in America.
It is black, but on its back it has two white stripes.
Eat worms, grasshoppers, lobsters, mice, eggs and birds.
You cannot climb trees.
When an enemy attacks him or when he is afraid, he leans on his legs and raises his tail.
If the animal does not move away, it throws a liquid that stinks very ugly
and that reaches up to about three meters away.
Opossum
The opossum lives in the Americas.
In Mexico it is more well known as tlacuache.
On the body it has thick, long dark gray hair, but not on the tail.
It is about 80 centimeters long, including the tail.
It looks like a large rat, but it has a longer snout than this one.
Lives in the trees,
and eat chickens, eggs, and fruit.
At night he comes out, but in the day he sleeps in a tree hole or on the ground.
When considered attacked, the deceased pretends and, with his eyes closed and his head hidden between his legs, he appears to be a rigid body.
Even though they are born like fifteen young
many die, and about eight live.
The female has a bag where she keeps her children when they are boys. Two months remain there.
Then they go out and their mother carries them on her back, holding onto her tail.
Cuatrojillo
The cuatrojillo lives anywhere in the world, except in Australia.
The cuatrojillo is about twelve inches long. Its tail is long and hairy.
Eat mice and chickens.
In very cold places, their skin is white and of great value.
Bat
looks like the bird,
It can fly, but it does not lay eggs.
When the young are born, the female, when she flies, carries them on her breast.
The bat sleeps a lot.
He is only awake four hours a night.
Savaha ni ga nuu iyo tɨ.
On the day when he sleeps, he stands with his head down where it is dark.
The bat can be tamed but its bite hurts a lot.
Live anywhere in the world.
Strong arm
There is an anteater, which is also called a strong arm, it is found from Guatemala to South America.
Those that exist in Mexico are very different.
The body of the Mexican anteater is about one and a half meters long.
The muzzle is long and the tail falls.
Sometimes he walks on the ground, but prefers trees.
Eat ants, termites, and sugar cane.
It has no teeth, but its tongue is very long and you can stick it in the anthill to eat it.
Her nails are very large.
He breaks the cane with them and then sucks his honey with his snout.
Deer
The deer lives anywhere.
There are in Asia, Europe, Africa, China, Japan, the Philippine Islands, Mexico, South America, Borneo, Canada and the United States.
There are many types of deer. The one who lives in Mexico is a boy.
The deer is the animal that can run the fastest.
When it is small it does not have horns, but when it grows it comes out, and each year a small accessory comes out.
Badger
The badger lives on hot ground
The female has two to four children.
The one who lives in South America is dark yellow
but he who lives in the United States and Canada has a white muzzle.
The muzzle and tail are long.
It never goes alone; always in a group.
Eat birds, worms, reptiles, bananas, and papaya.
He sleeps at night and searches for his food during the day. The badger can be tamed.
Crocodile
The crocodile that lives in Africa is up to six meters long
but those in the Americas, China, Asia and Australia are smaller.
The crocodile lives in the water and when animals like cattle or horses come to drink, it grabs them by the snout, drags them into the water, and they drown.
Eat the dogs and the people.
He really likes rotten meat.
He also comes out of the water and walks on the sand by the river. There the female lays more or less 60 eggs and leaves them. When the crocodiles are born, they go into the water, and there they breed.
They only go out to find what to eat.
Tuza
The gopher lives anywhere in the world, except in Africa and South America.
Her body is small and her skin is very soft.
Its muzzle is long and thick.
Her hands are big with small fingers.
With his hands and muzzle the gopher scratches the ground.
When you dig under the ground, look for worms or tree roots.
Garbage is poured over it to hide.
Shrew
The shrew is small, like a mouse.
Its muzzle is long, its eyes and legs are small, its beard is long and its teeth are sharp.
There are in the United States, South America and in Europe.
The shrew is always hungry.
In the day and at night he is looking for something to eat under the leaves or roots of the trees.
Eat worms, mice and grass.
He lives in tunnels that he burrows into the ground.
When confronted by an enemy, it emits a stinky odor to drive it away
She is very brave and can kill a mouse even when it is bigger than her.
Raccoon
The raccoon lives in the Americas.
It is small, but its tail is long.
Her hair is black and white.
Its muzzle is long.
On his face he has black hair that makes him look like a mask.
He likes water very much and does not swim very well.
Eat frogs, eggs, vibras, fruit, and ears.
He only comes out at night, and in the daytime he sleeps lying on a tree.
In places where it is very cold, before the cold starts, it is locked in a tree hole.
Even the cousin vera goes for a walk again.
Chipmunk
The squirrel lives in the forest.
It is found on hot and cold ground.
Eat acorns and other fruit from trees.
He also eats pineapple and corn.
There are two kinds of squirrels,
one is gray with a purple chest and the other is black.
Stop two young at the same time. They make their nest above the trees; their children remain there until they are grown up.
The meat of the squirrel is very tasty. People hunt it a lot.
Wild pig
The boar lives in the bush. He does not live alone;
he always walks in groups.
It is black and white.
Its tail is short and its legs are not very long, they look like the legs of pigs.
Stop two to four young at a time. When it rains a lot they come out of the forest and stop on a hill.
The wild boar eats grass and tree roots.
It also digs the ground and looks for worms and sweet potatoes.
Porcupine
The porcupine lives in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas.
Its body is very thick and its tail very short
On his skin are spikes two inches long.
If an animal attacks you, it strikes with its tail
and the thorns break off and enter the body of the enemy.
The porcupine is very silly and walks very slow.
Some climb trees.
In the daytime he goes into the earth or between the stones and sleeps there. At night he goes out to look for his food.
Armadillo
The armadillo lives in the Americas, in places where it is not cold, such as in the States of Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas.
in a shell like a very hard shell, simulating bone.
Its legs are small, but it can run faster than a man.
When it is scared, it becomes a ball and hides inside the shell; so his enemy cannot hurt him.
In the daytime he goes into a hole in the ground or between the stones and sleeps there.
When it is cloudy, or at night, he goes looking for his food.
It eats flies, worms, fruit, ants, snakes, lizards, eggs, small birds, and tree roots.
Seal
The seal lives in Asia, Mexico, and the United States.
He lives in the water but also walks on land.
It has no legs, but hands in a special way
that's why he walks on earth with a lot of work.
Her ears are small and her eyes are large.
Her skin is smooth and very expensive.
Its fat is also expensive.
Eat small fish and other water animals.
And I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud; and the rainbow was on his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet like columns of fire;
and he had in his hand an open little book. And he put his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land;
and he cried out with a loud voice, as a lion roars; and when he screamed, the seven thunders emitted their voices.
After the seven thunders spoke, I was going to write, when I heard a voice from heaven saying: Seal the things that the seven thunders have said and do not write them.
Then the angel that I had seen standing on the sea and on the earth raised his right hand to heaven,
and he swore by the one who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it, and the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it, that no longer there will be procrastination,
but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is ready to blow the trumpet, then the mystery of God will be consummated, as He announced it to his servants the prophets.
And the voice that I had heard from heaven, I heard again speaking with me, and saying: Go, take the book that is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land.
So I went to the angel and told him to give me the little book. And he said to me *: Take it and eat it up; It will make your insides bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.
I took the little book from the angel's hand and devoured it, and it was sweet in my mouth like honey; And when I ate it, it made my insides bitter.
And they said to me *: You must prophesy again about many peoples, nations, languages, and kings.
I was given a rod-like measuring rod, and someone said, Arise and measure the temple of God and the altar, and those who worship in it.
But exclude the courtyard outside the temple, do not measure it, because it has been given to the nations, and they will tread the holy city for forty-two months.
And I will give authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks that are before the Lord of the earth.
And if anyone wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies; This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die.
These have power to close the sky so that it does not rain during the days in which they prophesy; and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with all kinds of plagues as many times as they want.
When they have finished giving their testimony, the beast that rises from the abyss will make war against them, overcome them and kill them.
And their corpses will lie in the street of the great city, which is symbolically called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was also crucified.
And people of all peoples, tribes, languages ​​and nations, will behold their corpses for three and a half days, and will not allow their corpses to be buried.
And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and rejoice, and send each other gifts, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
But after three and a half days, the breath of life from God came to them and they stood up, and great fear fell upon those who beheld them.
Then they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them: Come up here. And they went up to heaven in the cloud, and their enemies saw them.
In that same hour there was a great earthquake and a tenth of the city collapsed, and seven thousand people died in the earthquake, and the rest, terrified, gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second, alas! has passed; behold, the third woe! coming soon.
The seventh angel sounded the trumpet, and great voices arose in heaven, saying: The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ; and He will reign for ever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders who were sitting before God on their thrones fell down on their faces and worshiped God,
saying: We thank you, O Lord Almighty God, who you are and who you were, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign.
And the nations were enraged, and your anger came, and the time came to judge the dead and to reward your servants the prophets, the saints and those who fear your name, the little ones and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
The temple of God in heaven was opened; and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple, and there was lightning, voices, and thunder, and an earthquake, and a hailstorm.
And a great sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and a crown of twelve stars on her head;
she was pregnant, and cried out *, in labor and with labor pains.
Then another sign appeared in the sky: behold, a great red dragon that had seven heads and ten horns, and on their heads were seven diadems.
Its tail dragged * a third of the stars from the sky and threw them on the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was to give birth, to devour her son when she gave birth.
And she gave birth to a male child, who is to rule all nations with a rod of iron; and her son was caught up to God and to his throne.
And the woman fled into the desert, where she had * a place prepared by God, to be sustained there, for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Then there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought,
but they could not overcome, nor was there any place found for them in heaven.
And the great dragon was thrown, the ancient serpent called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; He was thrown down to earth and his angels were thrown down with him.
And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying: Now has come salvation, the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ, because the accuser of our brothers, the one who accuses them before our God day and night, it has been thrown.
They overcame him through the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives, even suffering death.
Therefore rejoice, heavens and those who dwell in them. Woe to the land and the sea !, because the devil has descended on you with great fury, knowing that he has little time.
When the dragon saw that it had been thrown to the ground, it chased the woman who had given birth to the male child.
And the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman so that she would fly from the presence of the serpent to the desert, to its place, where it was sustained for a time, times, and half a time.
And the serpent threw from its mouth, after the woman, water like a river, to cause it to be swept away by the current.
But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had thrown from her mouth.
Then the dragon was enraged against the woman, and went out to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus.
[Not available]
The dragon stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast come up out of the sea that had ten horns and seven heads; on their horns were ten diadems, and on their heads were blasphemous names.
The beast that I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like those of a bear and its mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power, his throne and great authority.
And I saw one of their heads as a death wound, but their mortal wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled and followed after the beast;
and they worshiped the dragon, because he had given authority to the beast; and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast, and who can fight it?
He was given a mouth that spoke arrogant words and blasphemies, and he was given authority to act for forty-two months.
And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, that is, against those who dwell in heaven.
He was granted to make war against the saints and to overcome them; and authority was given to him over every tribe, people, language, and nation.
And all those who dwell on the earth, whose names have not been written, since the foundation of the world, in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain will adore it.
If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
If anyone is destined for captivity, he goes to captivity; if anyone is to die with the sword, he must die with the sword. Here is the perseverance and faith of the saints.
And I saw another beast coming up out of the ground; it had two horns like those of a lamb and spoke like a dragon.
He exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
He also does great signs, in such a way that he even descends fire from heaven to earth in the presence of men.
He also deceives those who dwell on the earth because of the signs that he was granted to do in the presence of the beast, telling the inhabitants of the earth to make an image of the beast that had * the wound of the sword and that has relived.
He was given encouragement to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would also speak and put to death all who do not worship the image of the beast.
And it causes everyone, small and large, rich and poor, free and slave, to be given a mark on the right hand or on the forehead,
and that nobody can buy or sell, but the one that has the mark: the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for the number is that of a man, and his number is six hundred and sixty-six.
I looked, and behold, the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion, and with Him a hundred and forty-four thousand who had His name and the name of their Father written on their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of great thunder; and the voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing their harps.
And they sang * a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been rescued from the earth.
These are the ones who have not defiled themselves with women, as they are chaste. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These have been rescued from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
No deception was found in his mouth; are spotless.
And I saw another angel flying in the middle of heaven who had an everlasting gospel to announce it to those who live on earth, and to every nation, tribe, language and people,
saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, because the hour of his judgment has arrived; worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the fountains of waters.
And another angel followed him, the second, saying: Great Babylon fell, fell! the one that has made all nations drink of the wine of the passion of their immorality.
Then another angel followed them, the third, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or in his hand,
he will also drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared pure in the cup of his wrath; and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone before the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
And the smoke of his torment rises forever and ever; and they have no rest, day or night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.
Here is the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying: Write: "Blessed are the dead who henceforth die in the Lord." Yes, says the Spirit, so that they rest from their works, because their works go with them.
And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man, who had a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
Then another angel came out of the temple crying out with a loud voice to the one who sat in the cloud: Put in your sickle and reap, because the harvest time has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe.
And he that sat on the cloud brandished his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, who also had a sharp sickle.
And another angel, the one who has power over the fire, came out of the altar; And he called to the one who had the sharp sickle with a loud voice, saying: Put your sharp sickle and harvest the clusters of the vine of the earth, because its grapes are ripe.
The angel brandished his sickle on the earth, and harvested the clusters of the vine of the earth and threw them in the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress that went up to the horses' bridles for a distance of about three hundred and twenty kilometers.
And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful: seven angels who had seven plagues, the last ones, because in them the fury of God has been consummated.
I also saw like a sea of ​​glass mixed with fire, and those who had been victorious over the beast, over its image and over the number of its name, standing on the sea of ​​glass, with harps of God.
And they sang * the song of Moses, servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying: Great and wonderful are your works, O Lord God, Almighty! Righteous and true are your ways, O King of the nations!
Oh Lord! Who will not fear and glorify your name? Well, only you are holy; for all nations will come and worship in your presence, for your righteous judgments have been revealed.
After these things I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle of witness in heaven was opened,
And the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in pure and shining linen, and girded around the chest with golden bands.
Then one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven golden cups filled with the fury of God, who lives forever and ever.
And the temple was filled with the smoke of the glory of God and of his power; and no one could enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.
And I heard a great voice saying from the temple to the seven angels: Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.
The first angel went and poured his cup on the earth; and there was a disgusting and evil sore on the men who bore the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
The second angel poured out his cup into the sea, and it became blood as of the dead; And every living being in the sea died.
The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the fountains of the waters, and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters, saying: You are righteous, you who are, and he who was, O Holy One, because you have judged these things;
for they shed blood of saints and prophets and you have given them blood to drink; they deserve it.
And I heard the altar saying: Yes, O Lord Almighty God, your judgments are true and just.
The fourth angel poured out his cup on the sun; and it was given to the sun to burn men with fire.
And the men were burned with the intense heat; and they blasphemed the name of God who has power over these plagues, and they did not repent to give him glory.
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast; and his kingdom was left in darkness, and they bit their tongues of pain.
And they blasphemed against the God of heaven because of their pain and sores, and did not repent of their works.
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates; and its waters dried up so that the way might be prepared for the kings of the east.
And I saw three unclean frog-like spirits come out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet;
for they are sign spirits of demons, which go to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together for the battle of the great day of Almighty God.
(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and guards his clothes, lest he walk naked and they see his shame.)
And they gathered them together in the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured his cup into the air; And a great voice came from the temple, from the throne, saying: It is done.
Then there was lightning, voices, and thunder; and there was a great earthquake such as there had not been since man is on earth; it was so big and powerful earthquake.
The great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And great Babylon was remembered before God to give him the cup of wine from the fury of his wrath.
And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
And huge hail, as of a talent each, fell * on men; and men blasphemed God for the plague of hail, because his plague was * exceedingly great.
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me, saying: Come; I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who is sitting on many waters;
with her the kings of the earth committed immoral acts, and the inhabitants of the earth were drunk with the wine of their immorality.
And he led me in the Spirit to a desert; and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names, and who had seven heads and ten horns.
The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls, and she had in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the filth of her immorality,
and on his forehead was a name written, a mystery: BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And when I saw her, I was greatly amazed.
And the angel said to me: Why have you been amazed? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and the beast that carries her, the one with the seven heads and the ten horns.
The beast that you saw, was and is not, and is about to rise from the abyss and go to destruction. And the inhabitants of the earth, whose names have not been written in the book of life since the foundation of the world, will be amazed to see the beast that was and is not, and that will come.
Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits;
and they are seven kings; five have fallen, one is and the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he needs to stay a little while.
And the beast that was and is not, is the eighth king, and is one of the seven and goes to destruction.
And the ten horns you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but who for one hour receive authority as kings with the beast.
These have the same purpose, and will give their power and authority to the beast.
These will fight against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of lords and King of kings, and those who are with Him are called, chosen and faithful.
And he said to me *: The waters that you saw where the harlot sits are peoples, multitudes, nations and languages.
And the ten horns that you saw and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will leave her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh and burn her with fire;
for God has placed in their hearts the execution of His purpose: that they have a unanimous purpose, and give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled.
And the woman you saw is the great city, which reigns over the kings of the earth.
After this I saw another angel come down from heaven, who had great power, and the earth was illuminated with his glory.
And he cried out in a mighty voice, saying, Great Babylon fell, fell! It has become the habitation of demons, the lair of every unclean spirit and the lair of every unclean and abhorrent bird.
For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the passion of their immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immoral acts with it, and the merchants of the earth have been enriched with the wealth of their sensuality.
And I heard another voice from heaven saying: Come out of her, my people, so that you do not share in her sins and so that you do not receive her plagues;
for their sins have piled up to heaven, and God has remembered their iniquities.
Pay her as she has paid, and repay her double according to her works; In the cup that she has prepared, prepare twice as much for her.
When she glorified herself and lived sensually, so give her torment and mourning, because she says in her heart: "I am sitting as a queen, and I am not a widow and I will never see mourning."
That is why, in one day, its plagues will come: death, mourning and hunger, and it will be burned with fire; because the Lord God who judges her is powerful.
And the kings of the earth who committed acts of immorality and lived sensuously with her will cry and lament for her when they see the smoke of her fire,
looking on from a distance because of the fear of his torment, and saying: "Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For in one hour your judgment has come."
And the merchants of the earth cry and mourn for it, because nobody buys their merchandise anymore:
shipments of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, and scarlet; all kinds of fragrant woods and all objects of ivory and all objects made of precious woods, bronze, iron and marble;
and cinnamon, aromatic spices, incense, perfume, myrrh, wine, olive oil; and flour, wheat, beasts, sheep, horses, cars, slaves and human lives.
And the fruit that you have longed for has turned away from you, and all the things that were luxurious and splendid have turned away from you, and will never find them again.
The merchants of these things who grew rich at her expense will stand afar because of the fear of their torment, crying and lamenting,
saying, "Woe, woe, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen, purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, precious stones and pearls!
because in one hour so much wealth has been razed. "And all the captains, passengers and sailors, and all who live on the sea, stood in the distance,
and when they saw the smoke of their fire they cried out, saying: "What city is similar to the great city?"
And they put dust on their heads, and they cried out, crying and wailing, saying: "Ay, ay, the great city in which all those who had ships in the sea became rich at the cost of their riches! been ravaged. "
Rejoice over her, heaven, and you also, saints, apostles and prophets, because God has pronounced judgment for you against her.
Then a mighty angel took a stone, like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying: Thus Babylon, the great city, will be thrown down with violence, and will never be found again.
And the sound of harpists, musicians, flute players and trumpeters will no longer be heard in you; Neither will any craftsman be found in you any more; no mill noise will ever be heard in you;
Lamp light will no longer shine on you; neither the voice of the groom and the bride will be heard more in you; because your merchants were the great ones of the earth, because all the nations were deceived by your sorceries.
And in it was found the blood of the prophets, of the saints, and of all who had been killed on earth.
After this I heard like a great voice from a great crowd in the sky, saying: Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God,
for his judgments are true and just, for he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has avenged the blood of her servants upon her.
And they said a second time: Hallelujah! Her smoke rises for ever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God, who is sitting on the throne, and said: Amen! Hallelujah!
And from the throne came a voice that said: Praise our God all his servants, those who fear him, the little ones and the great ones.
And I heard like the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of strong thunder, saying: Hallelujah! Because the Lord our Almighty God reigns.
Let us rejoice and be glad, and let us give Him the glory, because the marriage of the Lamb has arrived and his wife has prepared herself.
And it was given to her to dress in fine linen, shining and clean, because the righteous actions of the saints are fine linen.
And the angel said to me *: Write: "Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he said to me *: These are true words of God.
Then I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said to me *: Don't do that; I am a servant to you and to your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus; worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse; the one who mounted it is called Faithful and True, and with justice he judges and makes war.
His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head there are many diadems, and he has a written name that nobody knows but Him.
And he is dressed in a cloak soaked in blood, and his name is: The Word of God.
And the armies in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, followed him on white horses.
A sharp sword comes out of his mouth to strike the nations with it, and he will rule them with a rod of iron; and He treads the wine press of the fury of the wrath of Almighty God.
And on his cloak and on his thigh he has a name written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun. And he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the middle of the sky: Come, gather together for the great supper of God,
so that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of commanders and the flesh of the mighty, the flesh of horses and their horsemen, and the flesh of all men, free and slaves, small and great.
Then I saw the beast, the kings of the earth, and their armies gathered together to wage war against the one on the horse and against his army.
And the beast was caught, and with it the false prophet who made signs in his presence, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped its image; the two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
And the rest were slain with the sword that came out of the horse rider's mouth, and all the birds were satisfied with their meat.
The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him, to show his servants the things that must happen soon; And he made it known, sending it through his angel to his servant John,
who bore witness to the word of God, and to the witness of Jesus Christ, and to all that he saw.
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand.
John, to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace, from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne,
and of Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead and the sovereign of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us and delivered us from our sins with his blood,
and made us a kingdom and priests for his God and Father, to Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he comes with the clouds and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth will lament for Him; yes. Amen.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
I, John, your brother and companion in tribulation, in the kingdom, and in perseverance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos, because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice, like the sound of a trumpet,
which said: Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.
And I turned to see whose voice was speaking to me. And when I turned around, I saw seven golden candlesticks;
And in the middle of the candelabra, I saw one similar to the Son of Man, dressed in a tunic that reached to his feet and girded around his chest with a golden belt.
Her head and hair were white as white wool, as snow; his eyes were like a flame of fire;
his feet like burnished bronze when it has been made to glow in the furnace, and his voice like the noise of many waters.
In his right hand he held seven stars, and from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword; his face was like the sun when it shines with all its force.
When I saw him, I fell as dead at his feet. And He put his right hand on me, saying: Fear not, I am the first and the last,
and he who lives, and was dead; and behold, I am alive for ever and ever, and I have the keys of death and of Hades.
Write, then, the things that you have seen, and those that are, and those that will happen after these.
As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and of the seven golden candlesticks: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks are the seven churches.
And I saw an angel coming down from heaven, with the key to the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
He caught the dragon, the ancient serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years;
And he threw him into the abyss, and closed it and sealed it over him, so that he would no longer deceive the nations, until the thousand years were finished; after this it should be unleashed for a little while.
I also saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and they were given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or his image, nor received the mark on his forehead or on his hand; and they came back to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; the second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with Him for a thousand years.
When the thousand years are up, Satan will be released from his prison,
and he will go out to deceive the nations at the four ends of the earth, Gog and Magog, in order to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
And they went up over the breadth of the earth, surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and devoured them.
And the devil who was deceiving them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where there are also the beast and the false prophet; and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them.
And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and Death and Hades delivered the dead that were in them; and they were judged, each according to his works.
And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death: the lake of fire.
And he who was not inscribed in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, because the first heaven and the first earth passed, and the sea no longer exists.
And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, descending from heaven, of God, prepared as a bride dressed for her husband.
Then I heard a great voice saying from the throne: Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and He will dwell among them and they will be his people, and God himself will be among them.
He will wipe every tear from his eyes, and there will be no more death, no more mourning, no cry, no pain, because the first things have happened.
And he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he added *: Write, because these words are faithful and true.
He also said to me: It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will freely give from the spring of the water of life.
The overcomer will inherit these things, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
But cowards, unbelievers, abominable, murderers, immoral, sorcerers, idolaters and all liars will have their inheritance in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the last seven plagues came and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.
And he led me in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down from heaven, from God,
and had the glory of God. Its brilliance was like that of a very precious stone, like a crystalline jasper stone.
It had a great and high wall with twelve doors, and at the doors twelve angels; and on them were written names, which are those of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
There were three doors to the east, three doors to the north, three doors to the south, and three doors to the west.
The city wall had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And the one who was talking to me had a golden measuring stick, to measure the city, its gates and its wall.
And the city is laid out in the shape of a square, and its length is equal to its width. And he measured the city with the rod, twelve thousand stadia; and its length, width and height are the same.
And he measured its wall, one hundred and forty-four cubits, according to human measure, which is also that of an angel.
The material of the wall was jasper, and the city was of pure gold like pure crystal.
The foundations of the city wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones: the first foundation, jasper; the second sapphire; the third, agate; the fourth, emerald;
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, Sardinian; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, hyacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst.
The twelve gates were twelve pearls; each of the doors was of a single pearl; and the city street was of pure gold, like clear glass.
And I saw no temple in it, because its temple is the Lord, the Almighty God, and the Lamb.
The city has no need of sun or moon to illuminate it, because the glory of God illuminates it, and the Lamb is its light.
And the nations will walk in its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory to it.
Its doors will never close during the day (because there will be no night there);
and they will bring to it the glory and honor of the nations;
and nothing unclean will enter it, not even the one who practices abomination and lies, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life.
And he showed me a river of water of life, shining like crystal, coming out of the throne of God and of the Lamb,
in the middle of the city street. And on each side of the river was the tree of life, which produces twelve kinds of fruit, bearing fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there will be no more curse; and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be there, and his servants will serve him.
They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
And there will be no more night, and they will have no need of lamp light or sunlight, because the Lord God will illuminate them, and they will reign for ever and ever.
And he said to me: These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show his servants the things that are soon to happen.
Behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy in this book.
I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
And he said to me *: Don't do that; I am your servant and your brothers the prophets and those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.
He also said to me *: Do not seal the words of the prophecy in this book, because the time is near.
May the unjust continue to do injustices, may the impure continue to be impure, may the just continue to practice justice, and may the saintly keep himself holy.
Behold, I am coming soon, and my reward is with me to reward each one according to his work.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
Blessed are those who wash their robes to qualify for the tree of life and to enter through the gates into the city.
Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices lying.
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to witness these things to the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star.
And the Spirit and the wife say: Come. And whoever hears, say: Come. And the one who is thirsty, come; and he who desires, let him drink freely of the water of life.
I testify to all who hear the words of the prophecy in this book: If anyone adds to them, God will bring upon him the plagues that are written in this book;
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part of the tree of life and of the holy city described in this book.
He who testifies of these things says: Yes, I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with everyone. Amen.
He writes to the angel of the church in Ephesus: "He who has the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden candlesticks, says this:
"I know your works, your fatigue and your perseverance, and that you cannot bear the bad, and you have put to test those who claim to be apostles and are not, and you have found them liars.
You have perseverance, and you have suffered for my name and you have not fainted.
But I have this against you: that you have left your first love.
Remember, therefore, where you have fallen and repent, and do the works you did at the beginning; if not, I will come to you and remove your candlestick from its place, if you do not regret it.
Yet you have this: that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the victor I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Smyrna: "The first and the last, the one who was dead and has returned to life, says this:
"I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy of those who claim to be Jews and are not, but are Satan's synagogue.
Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil will throw some of you into prison to be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The victor will not take damage from the second death "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Pergamum: "He who has the sharp two-edged sword says this:
"I know where you dwell: where Satan's throne is. You faithfully keep my name and you have not denied my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful servant, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
But I have a few things against you, because you have there those who maintain the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to stumble before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit acts of immorality.
So you also have some who in the same way maintain the doctrine of the Nicolaitans.
Therefore, repent; if not, I will come to you soon and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the overcomer I will give of the hidden manna, and I will give a white stone, and engraved on the stone a new name, which no one knows but he who receives it. "
And he writes to the angel of the church in Thyatira: "The Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze, says this:
"I know your works, your love, your faith, your service and your perseverance, and that your recent works are greater than the first.
But I have this against you: that you tolerate that Jezebel woman, who claims to be a prophetess, and teaches and seduces my servants to commit immoral acts and eat things sacrificed to idols.
I have given him time to repent, and he does not want to repent of his immorality.
Look, I will prostrate her in bed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw in great tribulation, if they do not repent of her works.
And I will kill their children with pestilence, and all the churches will know that I am the one that searches the minds and the hearts, and I will give to each one according to your works.
But to you, to the others who are in Thyatira, to those who do not have this doctrine, who have not known the profound things of Satan, as they call them, I say: I do not impose another burden on you.
However, what you have, hold it until I come.
And to the overcomer, to the keeper of my works to the end, I will give authority over the nations;
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the potter's vessels are shattered, as I also have received authority from my Father;
and I'll give you the morning star.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Sardis: "He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says this:" I know your works, that you have a name that you live, but you are dead.
Get up and affirm the things that remain, that were about to die, because I have not found your works complete before my God.
Remember, then, what you have received and heard; save it and repent. Therefore, if you do not watch, I will come as a thief, and you will not know what time I will come upon you.
But you have a few in Sardis who have not stained their clothes, and they will walk with me dressed in white, because they are worthy.
Thus the victor will be clothed in white garments and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will recognize his name before my Father and before his angels.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Philadelphia: "The Holy One, the True One, the one who has the key of David, the one who opens and nobody closes, and closes and nobody opens, says this:
"I know your works. Look, I have put in front of you an open door that nobody can close, because you have a little power, you have kept my word and you have not denied my name.
Behold, I will hand over those in Satan's synagogue who claim to be Jews and are not, but lie; behold, I will cause them to come and fall at your feet, and know that I have loved you.
Because you have kept the word of my perseverance, I will also keep you from the hour of trial, that hour that is to come over the whole world to test those who live on earth.
I come soon; hold fast what you have, so that no one will take your crown.
To the victor I will make a column in the temple of my God, and he will never leave it again; I will write on it the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which descends from the heaven of my God, and my new name.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
And he writes to the angel of the church in Laodicea: "The Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Principle of the creation of God, says this:
"I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot!
So, since you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
Because you say: 'I am rich, I have become rich and I have no need of anything'; and you don't know that you are miserable and worthy of pity, and poor, blind and naked,
I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you become rich, and white garments so that you dress and the shame of your nakedness is not manifested, and eye drops to anoint your eyes so that you can see.
I rebuke and discipline all I love; So be jealous and repent.
Behold, I am at the door and knock; If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him and he with me.
To the victor, I will grant to sit with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat with my Father on his throne.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches "".
After this I looked, and saw an open door in heaven; and the first voice that I had heard, like the sound of a trumpet speaking to me, said: Come up here and I will show you the things that must happen after these.
Instantly I was in the Spirit, and I saw a throne placed in heaven, and one sitting on the throne.
And the one who sat was like a stone of jasper and sardium, and around the throne was a rainbow, like the emerald.
And around the throne were twenty-four thrones; and sitting on the thrones, twenty-four old men dressed in white robes, with golden crowns on their heads.
From the throne came lightning, voices, and thunder; and before the throne were seven lamps of burning fire, which are the seven Spirits of God.
In front of the throne was like a transparent sea like glass; and in the middle of the throne and around the throne, four living beings full of eyes in front and behind.
The first living being was like a lion; the second being was like a calf; the third being had the face of a man, and the fourth being was like a flying eagle.
And the four living beings, each of them with six wings, were full of eyes around and inside, and day and night they did not stop saying: Holy, Holy, Holy, it is the Lord God, the Almighty, the one who was, the one who is and the one who is to come.
And every time the living beings give glory, honor and thanksgiving to the one who sits on the throne, to the one who lives for ever and ever,
the twenty-four elders prostrate themselves before him who sits on the throne, and worship the one who lives forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying:
You are worthy, Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, because you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created.
And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and out, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a mighty angel crying out with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the book and loosen its seals?
And no one, neither in heaven nor on earth nor under the earth, could open the book or look at its contents.
And I was crying a lot, because no one had been found worthy to open the book or look at its contents.
Then one of the elders said to me *: Don't cry; look, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome to open the book and its seven seals.
I looked, and saw between the throne (with the four living creatures) and the elders, a Lamb, standing, as if slain, who had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent throughout the earth.
And he came, and took the book from the right hand of him who sat on the throne.
When he took the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb; each had a harp and gold bowls filled with incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sang * a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the book and open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you bought for God people of every tribe, language, people and nation.
And you have made them a kingdom and priests for our God; and they will reign over the earth.
And I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living beings and of the elders; and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands,
who said with a loud voice: The Lamb that was slain worthy is to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory and praise.
And to every created thing that is in heaven, on the earth, under the earth and in the sea, and all the things that are in them, I heard them say: To the one who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, be the praise, honor, glory and dominion for ever and ever.
And the four living beings said: Amen. And the elders fell down and worshiped.
I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living beings saying, as with a voice of thunder: Come.
I looked, and behold, a white horse; and the one who was riding on it had a bow; He was given a crown, and he went out conquering and to conquer.
When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living being say: Come.
Then another horse came out, red; and the one who was riding on it was granted to take away the peace of the earth and that men kill each other; and he was given a great sword.
When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living being say: Come. And I looked, and behold, a black horse; and the one who was riding on it had a scale in hand.
And I heard like a voice in the middle of the four living beings saying: A liter of wheat for a denarius, and three liters of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and the wine.
When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living being say: Come.
And I looked, and behold, a yellowish horse; and the one who was riding on it was called Death; and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a quarter of the earth, to kill with the sword, with hunger, with pestilence, and with the beasts of the earth.
When the Lamb opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God and the testimony they had kept;
and they cried out with a loud voice, saying: How long, O holy and true Lord, will you wait to judge and avenge our blood on those who live on earth?
And each was given a white robe; and they were told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers, who were to be killed as they had been, was also completed.
I saw when the Lamb opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun turned black like sackcloth made of bristle, and the whole moon turned like blood,
and the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as the fig tree drops its green figs when it is shaken by a strong wind.
And the sky disappeared like a scroll that is rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place.
And the kings of the earth, and the great ones, the commanders, the rich, the powerful, and every servant and all free, hid in the caves and between the rocks of the mountains;
and they said to the mountains and the rocks: Fall on us and hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb,
For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can sustain themselves?
After this, I saw four angels standing at the four ends of the earth, stopping the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow, neither on the earth nor on the sea nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel coming up from where the sun rises and who had the seal of the living God; and shouted with a loud voice to the four angels who had been granted to harm the land and the sea,
saying: Do no harm, neither to the land nor to the sea nor to the trees, until we have put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God.
And I heard the number of those who were sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from all the tribes of the children of Israel;
from the tribe of Judah twelve thousand were sealed; from the tribe of Rubén, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand; from the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar;
twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun; twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph, and twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Benjamin.
After this I looked, and saw a great multitude, which no one could count, from all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes and with palms on their hands.
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying: Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.
And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne, and they worshiped God,
saying: Amen! Blessing, glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, honor, power and strength, be to our God for ever and ever. Amen.
And one of the elders spoke saying to me: Who are they who are dressed in white robes, who are they and where did they come from?
And I answered him: My Lord, you know it. And he said to me: These are the ones who come from the great tribulation, and have washed their garments and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
So they stand before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them.
They will no longer be hungry or thirsty, nor will the sun beat them down, nor any heat,
for the Lamb in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of waters of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels standing before God, and they were given seven trumpets.
Another angel came and stood before the altar with a golden censer, and much incense was given to him to add to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne.
And from the angel's hand the smoke of the incense rose with God with the prayers of the saints.
And the angel took the censer, filled it with the fire from the altar and threw it to the ground, and there was thunder, noise, lightning, and an earthquake.
Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to blow them.
The first blew the trumpet, and hail and fire mixed with blood came, and they were thrown to the ground; and a third of the earth was burned, a third of the trees were burned, and all the green grass was burned.
The second angel blew the trumpet, and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea turned to blood.
And a third of the beings that were in the sea and that had life died; and a third of the ships were destroyed.
The third angel sounded the trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell on the third part of the rivers and on the springs of the waters.
And the name of the star is Wormwood; and a third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died because of the waters, because they had become bitter.
The fourth angel sounded the trumpet, and the third part of the sun, the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars were wounded, so that the third part of them was darkened and the day did not shine in its third part, and likewise at night.
Then I looked and heard an eagle fly in the middle of the sky, saying with a loud voice: Woe, woe, woe, from those who live on earth, because of the missing trumpet blasts, that the other three angels they are to touch!
The fifth angel blew the trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen from heaven to earth, and was given the key to the bottomless pit.
When he opened the pit of the abyss, smoke rose from the pit like smoke from a great furnace, and the sun and air were obscured by the smoke from the pit.
And locusts came out of the smoke upon the earth, and they were given power as the scorpions of the earth have power.
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth, or any green thing, or any tree, but only to men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
They were not allowed to kill anyone, but torment them for five months; and his torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man.
In those days men will seek death and will not find it; and they will long to die, and death will flee from them.
And the appearance of the locusts was similar to that of horses prepared for battle, and on their heads they had like crowns that looked like gold, and their faces were like human faces.
They had hair like women's hair, and their teeth were like lions.
They also had breastplates like iron breastplates; and the noise of their wings was like the roar of chariots, of many horses that go into battle.
They have scorpion-like tails, and stingers; and in its tails is its power to harm men for five months.
They have as their king the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek is called Apollion.
The first woe has passed; behold, two woes still come after these things.
The sixth angel blew the trumpet, and I heard a voice come out of the four horns of the golden altar before God,
And he said to the sixth angel who had the trumpet: Release the four angels who are tied by the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels who had been prepared for the hour, day, month, and year were unleashed to kill one third of humanity.
And the number of the horsemen's armies was two hundred million; I heard your number.
And this is how I saw in the vision the horses and their riders: the riders had breastplates the color of fire, hyacinth and sulfur; the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and fire, smoke, and brimstone came out of their mouths.
A third of humanity was killed by these three plagues: by the fire, smoke, and sulfur that came out of their mouths.
Because the power of the horses is in their mouth and in their tails; because their tails are similar to snakes, they have heads and with them they hurt.
And the rest of humanity, those who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor stopped worshiping demons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood, that they cannot see or hear or walk;
and they did not repent of their murders or their sorceries or their immorality or their robberies.
Sauce insect
that's what we call them
because when we eat them
they sting like sauce.
From ancient times, our ancestors grabbed them on the hills of green grass and blue flowers.
[The people] were fuming
and [the insects] flew away
that's how they got hold of them.
They removed their antennas
and they blew him in the "noses" [of bedbugs]
so it wouldn't throw away all its spicy liquid.
We can eat these "sauce" bugs alone
or we can pop them on a plate of beans
they leave a very rich smell in our food.
The months in which we can catch them are in March, April and May '
because when the rains start
[in that season] there are other bedbugs.
Similar to the sauce bug
but they smell really bad
and they have horns.
They are bad to eat.
Wolf spider
There is a type of spider called tintoo savi.
She loads her eggs in a "white shawl"
'And when (the eggs) break'
get on his back
She takes great care of her children
because she is a good mom.
In my town they believe
it's wrong to kill the wolf spider
because if you kill her
you are struck by lightning.
That's what they believe in the town where I live
Reaper
They say in my town
that when a reaper passes in front of us
problems come
They also say
that we are going to get money
That is what they count.
Do you know why the reaper does not have all the legs firmly fixed
It is because every time an insect approaches to attack it
removes one leg and pulls it toward the insect
Then the leg starts to move by itself
the insect is scared and entertains looking at the leg
and suddenly, the reaper jumps and kills the insect.
Green stink bug
In the town of [Santiago] Amoltepec, there is an insect called "kya'aˮ
People eat it in their food
they tear it in their beans
grind it with sauce
and they eat it simply raw with an omelette.
That insect is found above Cerro Flor in Amoltepec
and it is also found in hunt trees when they have tender leaves.
Find the cat
A man who weaves cloth has a striped cat.
The cat peeked out and saw that it was very pretty,
and thought about going out to see what was in all the town.
The cat went out and left.
He looked for a higher place to see the whole town.
Find the cat.
He came to a factory where things are produced.
Find the cat.
Then he also went to a place where fruit is sold.
Then he went out and left.
Suddenly I was where some musicians were drinking.
After listening to the songs, he left and left. He entered a field where a man was cutting grass.
He left the field
and entered a school among the people who were studying.
He left school
and went to a place where they were fishing,
and he was greatly admired of them.
When you finish looking at the fish,
He went to where there was a donkey and many pitchers.
It got dark
and the cat was still among the people.
And the next day I was at the top of a fruit tree.
Came down from the tree
and he left
He came to a place where they sold cloth.
I walked a lot
and came to a place where a person was weaving a tenate.
Then he got to where some women were working.
When he finished touring the town, he returned home.
What is goiter.
Goiter, commonly called "buche o güegüencho" is a disease characterized essentially by the presence of a bulge in the front of the neck
The cause of the goiter.
The human system needs iodine,
and when it is not found in the water or soil in the area, food is deficient in this element.
Goiter is almost always due to a lack of iodine in food and drinking water
Consequences of goiter.
Goiter produces very serious disorders of the nervous system, the heart, and nutrition, disorders that force those who suffer it to undergo delicate surgical operations to heal themselves.
In some other cases, goiter can develop into a malignant tumor, that is, a cancer, which, as is known, is always a serious disease that often leads to death.
There are cases in which the same disturbances become so great that the patient is unable to learn to speak and cannot even serve himself in the simple tasks of life.
It is also very common for goiters to be deaf mute, while others suffer such a considerable delay in their development that they become dwarfs.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Timothy,
To the holy and faithful brothers in Christ who are in Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
We thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, always praying for you,
hearing about your faith in Christ Jesus and the love you have for all the saints,
because of the hope reserved for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of truth, the gospel
that has come down to you. Just as it is constantly bearing fruit and growing throughout the world, so it has been doing so in you, from the day you heard and understood the grace of God in truth;
just as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved servant, who is a faithful servant of Christ on our behalf,
which also informed us about your love in the Spirit.
For this reason, we too, from the day we took them over, have not stopped praying for you and praying that you are filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
that you may walk worthy of the Lord, pleasing him in everything, bearing fruit in every good work and growing in the knowledge of God;
strengthened with all power according to the power of his glory, to obtain all perseverance and patience, with joy
giving thanks to the Father who has enabled us to share the inheritance of the saints in light.
Because He delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,
in whom we have redemption: forgiveness of sins.
He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
For in Him all things were created, both in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible; be they thrones or dominions or powers or authorities; everything has been created through him and for him.
And He is before all things, and in Him all things remain.
He is also the head of the body that is the church; and He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that He may have primacy in everything.
For the Father was pleased that all the fullness should dwell in Him,
and through Him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through Him, I repeat, whether they are on earth or in heaven.
And although you were far away and you were hostile, busy in bad works,
However, now He has reconciled you in his body of flesh, through his death, in order to present you holy, unblemished and blameless before Him,
if in truth you remain in the faith well grounded and constant, without moving from the hope of the gospel that you have heard, which was proclaimed to all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, was made a minister.
Now I rejoice in my sufferings for you, and in my flesh, completing what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ, I do my part for his body, which is the church,
of which I was made a minister according to the administration of God that was given to me for your benefit, in order to carry out the preaching of the word of God,
that is, the mystery that has been hidden from centuries and past generations, but that has now been manifested to its saints,
To whom God wanted to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
To Him we proclaim, admonishing all men, and teaching all men with all wisdom, in order to present every perfect man in Christ.
And to this end I also work, striving according to its power that works powerfully in me.
Because I want you to know what a great fight I have for you and for those who are in Laodicea, and for all those who have not seen me in person,
so that their hearts are encouraged, and united in love, they reach all the riches that come from a full assurance of understanding, resulting in a true knowledge of the mystery of God, that is, of Christ,
in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
I say this so that nobody deceives you with persuasive reasoning.
For although I am absent in the body, nevertheless I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good discipline and the stability of your faith in Christ.
Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him;
firmly rooted and built up in Him and confirmed in your faith, just as you were instructed, overflowing with gratitude.
See that no one makes you captive through his philosophy and vain subtleties, according to the tradition of men, according to the elemental principles of the world and not according to Christ.
Because all the fullness of Deity resides bodily in Him,
and you have been made complete in Him, who is the head over all power and authority;
in him you were also circumcised with a circumcision not made by hands, by removing the body from the flesh through the circumcision of Christ;
having been buried with Him in baptism, in which you have also been raised with Him by faith in the action of the power of God, who raised Him from the dead.
And when you were dead in your crimes and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He gave you life together with Him, having forgiven us all crimes,
having canceled the debt document that consisted of decrees against us and that was adverse to us, and has removed it from the middle, nailing it to the cross.
And having stripped the powers and authorities, He made them a public spectacle, triumphing over them through Him.
Therefore let no one be your judge with regard to food or drink, or as to the feast day, or new moon, or Sabbath day;
things that are only a shadow of what is to come, but the body belongs to Christ.
Let no one let you down from your prize by delighting in self-abasement and angel worship, relying on the visions he has seen, puffed up without cause by his carnal mind,
but not clinging to the Head, from which the whole body, nourished and united by the joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is of God.
If you have died with Christ to the elemental principles of the world, why, as if you still lived in the world, do you submit to precepts such as:
don't manipulate, don't like, don't touch
(all of which refer to things destined to perish with use), according to the precepts and teachings of men?
Such things have the truth, the appearance of wisdom in a human religion, in the humiliation of oneself and in the severe treatment of the body, but they have no value against the appetites of the flesh.
If, then, you have been raised with Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Set your sights on things above, not on things on earth.
Because you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ our life is manifested, then you too will be manifested with Him in glory.
Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to fornication, impurity, passions, bad desires and greed, which is idolatry.
For the wrath of God will come upon the children of disobedience because of these things,
in which you also walked in another time when you lived in them.
But now discard all these things too: anger, anger, malice, slander, foul language from your mouth.
Do not lie to each other, since you have cast off the old man with his bad habits,
and you have put on the new man, who is renewing himself towards a true knowledge, according to the image of the one who created him;
a renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jewish, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all, and in all.
Then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with tender compassion, kindness, humility, meekness and patience;
enduring each other and forgiving each other, if one has a complaint against another; As Christ forgave you, so do you also.
And above all these things, clothe yourselves with love, which is the bond of unity.
And may the peace of Christ reign in your hearts, to which you were truly called in one body; and be grateful.
May the word of Christ dwell in you abundantly, with all wisdom teaching and admonishing each other with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs, singing to God with thanksgiving in your hearts.
And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through Him to God the Father.
Women, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives and don't be harsh on them.
Children, be obedient to your parents in everything, because this is pleasing to the Lord.
Parents, do not exasperate your children, lest they become discouraged.
Servants, obey your masters on earth in everything, not to be seen, like those who want to please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.
And whatever you do, do it from the heart, as for the Lord and not for men,
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of inheritance. It is Christ the Lord whom you serve.
Because he who proceeds with injustice will suffer the consequences of the evil he has committed, and that, without respect of persons.
Masters, treat your servants with justice and equity, knowing that you also have a Lord in heaven.
Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving;
praying at the same time also for us, so that God opens a door for us to the word, in order to make known the mystery of Christ, for which I have also been imprisoned,
to manifest it as I must.
Walk wisely with those outside, making good use of the time.
May your conversation always be with grace, seasoned as with salt, so that you know how you should respond to each person.
As for all my affairs, Tychicus, our beloved brother, faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will inform you.
Because it is precisely for this that I have sent him to you, so that you may know our circumstances and comfort your hearts;
and with him Onesimus, faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will inform you about everything that happens here.
Aristarco, my prison partner, sends greetings; also Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him);
and also Jesus, called Righteous; These are the only co-workers with me in the kingdom of God who are circumcised, and they have proved to be an encouragement to me.
Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Jesus Christ, sends greetings to you, always striving intensely for you in his prayers, so that you are firm, perfect and completely safe in all the will of God.
Because I am a witness to him that he has a deep interest in you and in Laodicea and Hierapolis.
Lucas, the beloved physician, sends greetings, and so does Demas.
Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, also Nymphs and the church that is in their house.
When this letter has been read among you, have it read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and you, for your part, read the letter that comes from Laodicea.
And say to Archippus: Take care of the ministry you have received from the Lord, so that you fulfill it.
I, Pablo, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. May the grace be with you.
Wounds
The Tlacotes or boils
Scabies
Grain
Dysentery
Earthworms
The Amoebas
Rheumatism
Eye Diseases
Toothache
Earache
Burns
Cold, cough, and the flu
The Pulmonía
The tuberculosis
Typhus and typhoid
The measles
Malaria
How to feed children
How to feed children
Soothing remedies
Sulfa medicine
Wounds
Juan hurt his leg.
Microbes entered the wound and multiplied.
And then it got infected and pus came out.
He stopped eating meat,
beans, eggs and cheese,
Because he thought these foods made him more infected.
but it is not the food that causes the infection, but the microbes
When you are injured, immediately wash the wound with soap and boiled water.
using a clean cloth, or you can wash it with salt water.
Then put on Iodine,
Merthiolate, Sulfatiazole Ointment or any other remedy to heal the wound.
Then sell with a clean white cloth.
Every three days you change the cloth and add more medicine until it heals.
But if pus starts coming out, you have to change the cloth every day,
wash the wound and put another clean cloth and more medicine.
And take the Sulfa medicine, as indicated on page 32, where you say "The Sulfa Medicine"
If the infection has increased,
the wound has swollen and reddened and if you have pain in your entire leg or arm,
then you need another remedy.
Make a bag or fold a small cloth and put two tablespoons of English Salt.
They also serve two tablespoons of table salt if you don't get English Salt.
Then apply it to the wound and wet it with boiled water.
Occasionally add water to keep it wet.
So it takes out all the damage.
Leave this for a few days until it deflates and no longer hurts.
When the cloth becomes dirty, put another clean cloth with the medicine.
Also take Sulfa medicine.
Dirty rags must be burned.
Do not wash them
because this way they pass the microbes to the water, to the hands and later to other people.
The Tlacotes or boils
Make a bag or fold a small cloth and put two tablespoons of English Salt.
They also serve two tablespoons of table salt if you don't get English salt.
Apply it to the tlacote and wet it with boiled water.
Occasionally add water to keep it wet.
So it takes out all the damage.
Leave the remedy for a few days until there is no more pus.
When the cloth becomes dirty, put another clean cloth with the medicine.
Dirty rags must be burned.
When the pus has burst and no longer comes out,
remove the cloth and put Iodine or Mertiolate or Sulfatiazole Ointment.
Sell ​​it with a clean white cloth
It will soon heal.
If another tlacote starts to come out, take the medicine Sulfa,
as indicated on page 32, where it says: "The | Sulpha Medicine."
Scabies
Bathe well with soap and hot water or bathe in the temazcal.
Rub very hard with a brush or with the herbs of the temazcal, in all the parts where the granites are, so that they open.
Then apply Sulfur Ointment to all infected places
Or you can make a remedy by mixing one tablespoon of sulfur in two tablespoons of butter.
You wash all your clothes very well, as well as the sarapes and the duffel bag in which you sleep.
On the second day you apply the remedy again.
On the third day bathe again and apply the remedy again,
Wash the clothes you are wearing again.
This is how all the scabies mites are killed.
The whole family must be cured at once, so that the mites in their house are completely killed,
If the disease starts again, do again what you did before, to heal yourself.
Grain
The grains are produced by microbes and dirt.
If you have pimples, bathe very well every day and add Sulfur Ointment or Sulfatiazole Ointment.
When there are pimples on children's heads, cut their hair, wash their heads well, and remove scabs.
Then put the medicine Mercury Ammonia.
If you can't get Ammonia Mercury, you can add Sulfur Ointment or Zinc Oxide Sulfatiazole Ointment.
Wash their heads daily and put the medicine on them.
Dysentery
Juana's baby suddenly got dysentery.
Microbes entered it and multiplied a lot.
The baby is very young and will die soon if he does not receive medicine.
Therefore she has to buy the medicine soon.
It should not take long, because the little boy will weaken quickly.
You also have to give him a lot of boiled water because he is very thirsty from the disease.
Boiled water does not harm, but on the contrary, children die if they do not drink a lot of water.
Dysentery can be cured with Sulfa medicine.
See page 32, where it says "The Sulfa Medicine", and you will see how an adult or a child takes it.
Instead of the Sulfa, the medicine Integer Vioform or Carnoform also serves.
Take three pills a day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until you heal.
Children should take half a pill three times a day.
Powder the medicine and put it in a tablespoon of water.
If a person has diarrhea from time to time, it is not dysentery, but can be worms or amoebae.
Then the Sulfa will not serve you
But if you suddenly have severe bloody diarrhea, this is dysentery and you need the Sulfa or the Entero-Vioform or Carnoform.
Earthworms
Doña María's son has a swollen belly.
He always coughs even though he doesn't have a cold.
He is always tired, he does not want to play and he is not happy.
Sometimes he eats dirt, and when he sleeps he grinds his teeth.
There are also days when you have fever and diarrhea.
Later everything will swell and die if you do not receive medicine.
It has many worms in its belly.
There are several kinds of earthworms.
There is such a small class that we cannot see it.
An egg entered the child's stomach, and then many earthworms reproduced.
Earthworm eggs are in the ground and also fly in the wind.
There are several remedies for earthworms.
They are called Safe Shot, Chenopodium Oil, Crystoides, Partel and others more.
Tell the apothecary how old the sick child or adult is.
And he will inform you how these remedies should be taken.
These medicines are delicate and if they are not used correctly they will not alleviate the disease.
The person has to take the Crystoides, the Safe Shot, or the Chenopodium Oil at dawn and should not eat.
You should drink plenty of hot water or coffee without panela.
Four hours after taking the Crystoides, the patient must be given a strong purge that causes many worms to be thrown.
You can take English Salt or Castor Oil or another purge or purgative herb.
If it doesn't work, the person has to take more purging.
Then you can eat at noon.
Then you have to eat well of all foods to get stronger.
You have to eat fruits, cooked and raw vegetables, eggs, meat, pumpkin, chilacayote and everything there is.
Because all foods have many vitamins and give strength.
If the person is very thin and weak, they should take a Ferrous Sulfate tablet and a Vitamin B Complex tablet after breakfast every day.
Three weeks after taking the medicine, you have to take it again, in the same way as before, so that the few remaining worms die.
The Amoebas
Many people suffer from a disease caused by a small animal called amoeba.
You can't see this little animal.
(The amoeba) produces gas and stomach pain.
There are rheumatic pains throughout the body.
We become thin and weak.
There is loss of appetite and digestion disorders.
Some people have bloody diarrhea.
The animals are on the ground and can get into the water and food.
They are on the legs of the flies and they put the amoebas in the food.
They come into us and multiply a lot.
Adults: They need 30 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform and 20 of Aralén.
Take 3 Entero-Vioform or Carnoform pills each day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until all 30 pins are gone.
While taking the Whole Vioform or Carnoform, also take 20 Aralén tablets.
Take 2 tablets of Aralén every day, one at dawn and one at dusk, until they run out.
The Entero-Vioform or Carnoform kills the amoebas that are in the intestines and the Aralén kills those that are in the liver.
With these two medicines you will completely heal.
Take all of the prescribed amount, because if you take just a few pills, the illness will start again soon.
Children from 10 to 15 years old: They need 20 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform and 10 of Aralén.
Each day they should take 2 tablets of Entero-Vioform or Carnoform, one at dawn and one at dusk.
They should also take each day a tablet of Aralén, half a pill at dawn and half a pill at dusk.
The person who suffers from amoebas must eat well all kinds of food, vegetables and fruits, to strengthen themselves.
Take one tablet of Ferrous Sulfate and one of Vitamin B every day | Complex after breakfast.
Rheumatism
If you have rheumatism, you should sleep well covered.
Sleep on a serape and cover yourself with two others.
On days when you are in a lot of pain, take the medicine Sodium Salicylate, two pills three times a day, at dawn, noon, and dusk.
This will not completely heal you, but it does relieve you for some time.
When the pain returns, take more medicine.
Also rub with the remedy Liniment on the rheumatic parts.
Also rub with the remedy Liniment on the rheumatic parts. Take the recommended medicines on page 10, which says "The Amoebae", because it is perhaps the amoebae that cause the rheumatism.
Eat all cooked and raw vegetables, fruits, milk, meat, beans and wheat tortillas, because all these foods have vitamins that give strength.
Take one tablet of Ferrous Sulfate and one Vitamin B Complex each day after breakfast.
Eye Diseases
You should not touch your eyes, because this is how the microbes that cause disease enter.
Nor should you rub your eyes with rags or sarapes
If you or a child is ill with your eyes, they should not be touched.
Boil a jug of water and add a teaspoon of salt to it.
When the water has cooled somewhat, dip a piece of cotton in it.
Wash the eye with the least disease first, cleaning from the tear to the temples.
Then wash your other eye with another piece of cotton.
Do not put the same cotton twice in clean water.
The pieces of cotton must be burned, because they have the microbes that produce the disease.
If your eyes hurt, soak a very clean cloth in the hot, salty water and put it on your eyes.
When the rag has cooled, soak it again in the hot water and put it back in your eyes as many times as you need until the pain is gone.
You can also buy eye remedies called eye drops.
Put one drop in each eye three times a day.
If there is pus in the eyes, put one drop of Sulfatiazole Eye drops three times a day,
and with a cotton swab wipe the eyes.
There are two kinds of clouds that form in the eyes.
If clouds begin to form in your eyes, quickly buy Sulfatiazole Eye drops.
Put a drop in your sick eye three times a day.
If you have had clouds in your eyes for a long time, medicine will no longer work.
If clouds form below the surface of the eyes, they cannot be cured with any medicine.
Toothache
The sting and pain of the teeth are caused by microbes
We cannot heal them, but we can ease the pain.
There are several brands of remedies that ease pain.
They are called Mejoral, Cafiaspirina, Aspirina Bayer, Fenaspirina, Roberina, Bufferin, and others.
Take one of these remedies when it hurts a lot.
Read it on page 31, where it says "Soothing Remedies", and you will see how to use all of these remedies.
If you are not relieved by these remedies, you should take a Veganin pill.
If the grinding wheel is chopped, rinse well with warm water.
Then fill the bite with a mixture of Zinc Oxide Powder and Clove Essence in a dough consistency.
Or put a bit of cotton wool soaked with Nail Essence or Liniment into the bite.
Leave this for a few hours.
Do the same thing again if the pain returns
If there is swelling or if you have pus coming out, you need to take the Sulfa medicine.
See page 32 where it says "Sulfa Medicine" and you will see how to use this medicine.
If you see a dentist, he will cover your caries or remove your tooth, and you will not suffer anymore.
It is great to brush your teeth and gums every day with well salted water and a toothbrush.
This cleans the teeth and heals the gums when they are infected.
Each person should have their own brush.
You should not use someone else's brush, because diseases are passed from one mouth to another.
Earache
When your or your child's ears are sore, take Sulfa medicine as directed on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine."
If your ears hurt a lot, warm a rag and put it over your ear.
Or you can heat the salt that fits in a small storage.
Empty it into a rag bag and lie down, recharging the 1 ear that hurts on it.
Burns
When a person is burned, eggs must be hunted soon.
Wash your hands very well and break the egg on the burn and rub it in with your hand.
This should be left until the burn has healed.
It is important that the person drinks plenty of hot water or coffee or soft drinks.
You must also eat all kinds of food.
If there is a lot of pain, the person can take Mejoral or another calming remedy.
Do not put Hydrogen peroxide or Mentolate on the burn, because it will cause a lot of pain.
Cold, cough, and the flu
Santiago has a cough.
He is coughing in Chila's face.
Many microbes have entered Chila's nose.
Then Chila will get sick because Santiago does not cover his mouth when he coughs.
Doña Luisa also has a cough.
He is always coughing on his little boy's face and he will get sick.
Always cover your mouth when you cough.
Put a little Mentolate or Vick Vaporub on your nose, neck and chest.
When you have a cough, use Vick Cough Drops.
They must dissolve little by little in the mouth and thus the throat is relieved.
Or put a little Mentolate in the throat and let it dissolve slowly.
If the cough doesn't go away, take a Veganin pill.
If your throat is very sore, you need the Sulfa medicine.
Take it as indicated on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine
If there is high fever and headache and your whole body hurts, this disease is called the flu.
Take Mejoral or another calming remedy, as directed on page 31, where it says "Calming Remedies."
At night before falling asleep, take one tablet of the soothing remedies with a cup of hot water and lemon juice.
Wrap it in two sarapes so it doesn't get cold.
The Bromo-Quinine remedy is also good for the flu.
If you have the flu, stay home and rest.
Don't get together with people because the disease will pass to them.
Lemons, oranges, tomatoes, pomegranates, and all acidic things have Vitamin C which is a good remedy for a cold, cough, and flu.
You need to drink a lot of water.
When you cough or sneeze, cover your mouth with a handkerchief or a clean piece of cloth, so the air doesn't blow your saliva.
Because it carries microbes that pass to other people.
Wash the handkerchief every day.
Do not spit inside the house.
The Pulmonía
Pneumonia is a disease caused by microbes that have entered the lungs.
The disease comes suddenly or when the person has had the flu or other fever.
The person is breathing hard.
Due to insufficient air in the lungs, her nails and lips are purple.
His cough comes from the lungs and his throat makes noise when the air comes out.
Spit up phlegm with blood.
He has a lot of fever and sweats a lot.
Sometimes his chest hurts.
This disease is very serious and you have to buy medicine quickly.
Because if it takes too long, the patient will get so bad that the medicine will no longer help him.
Sulfa medicine is needed.
The best Sulfas for this disease are Tri-Sulfa and Sulfadiazine.
Read page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine", and you will see how to use it.
Take it until there is no more fever; then take it two more days.
If you stop taking the medicine, a relapse may come.
In times when you are in a lot of pain, take Mejoral or another soothing remedy as directed on page 31.
The tuberculosis
Tuberculosis is a disease in which another class of microbes has entered the lungs.
It makes the person become thin and weak.
He constantly coughs and sometimes spits blood.
She is always tired and does not want to eat.
At night he has fever and sweats.
Or the disease makes small holes in the leg, back, or neck.
And pus comes out for a long time and the person becomes thin and weak.
We cannot cure tuberculosis.
But a doctor can cure it.
There is medicine that kills the microbes that cause this disease.
The sick person needs to be examined by a doctor, and he will tell how the medicine should be taken.
So go with him, because this disease is very serious and only the doctor will cure you.
Do not delay in going to the doctor, because if you do not go soon, the healing will be more difficult.
Typhus and typhoid
There are two diseases called typhus and typhoid.
Fleas and lice bring germ to the germ that typhus produces.
They sting sick people and suck up the microbes that are in the blood of the sick.
Then they bite other people and in a week or two they get sick.
The microbes that make typhoid are in raw water or food.
Flies also introduce microbes into food and drinks.
Always bury dirt, especially from sick people.
Flies walk on top of dirt and then walk on your child's food and mouth
When there is an epidemic of typhus or typhoid it is necessary to kill fleas, lice and flies with DDT.
DDT must be sprayed throughout the town, in all houses and in all people and animals.
We also have to boil well the water we drink and use to make tortillas and wash dishes.
You should boil the water for one minute, ten minutes, and then cover the pot and let it cool.
We cover the food well to prevent flies from entering.
We should not eat or drink in the home of a typhus or typhoid patient.
We should wash our hands well (when we return from the house of a sick person).
Let's not get together with people when there is an epidemic.
Chloromycetin is the best remedy for typhus and typhoid.
This medicine is expensive but it is very necessary to take it because these diseases are very serious.
We will soon be relieved by the medicine, because it kills the microbes that are inside us.
Adults: They need about 36 Chloromycetin capsules.
When you start, take 5 capsules at once.
Then take 8 capsules each day, two at dawn, two at noon, two at dusk, and two at midnight.
Continue to drink until you no longer have fever.
So for two more days, take 4 capsules a day, one capsule at the same times mentioned above.
Children: At first they should take 2 capsules of Chloromycetin at once.
Then they should take 4 capsules each day, one at dawn, one at noon, one at dusk and one at midnight, until they no longer have fever.
So for two more days, they should take 2 capsules, one at dawn and one at dusk.
The medicine Aureomycin or Terramycin also works.
They are taken in the same way as Chloromycetin.
Sulfa should not be taken for this disease.
When your head hurts a lot and you have a lot of fever, you can take Mejoral or another calming remedy.
These calming remedies cause the fever to drop a little and the pain to ease somewhat.
But they do not kill microbes and do not make the sick person heal sooner.
Read it on page 31, where it says "Soothing Remedies", and you will see how to use these remedies.
People with typhoid and typhoid should eat well so they have the strength to heal.
They should only eat soft foods such as eggs, sapotes, pumpkins, bananas, strained atole and milk.
They should not eat beans or chili until they heal.
Every two hours they should eat a little, and they should also drink a lot of boiled water.
The measles
When there is a measles epidemic, don't let your children play with other children.
If your child has measles, his eyes hurt a lot.
You have to stay inside the house; You should not go out in the sun because your eyes hurt more.
You should also not let smoke get into your eyes.
It is good to lie down and close your eyes.
Give him the Improvement remedy or another calming remedy, as indicated on page 31.
You need to drink a lot of boiled water.
If your child is very hot, coughs, and has a sore chest, quickly give him the Sulfa medicine, as directed on page 32, where it says "Sulfa Medicine."
Malaria
Simon went to the coast.
When he came back he had the disease called malaria.
The insects that cause malaria are a class of mosquitoes called Anopheles.
Simon was bitten and microbes were put into his blood.
They multiplied in his blood and he got sick.
Occasionally his illness returns.
10 tablets of Aralén are needed.
Take 4 pills at noon and two more at dusk.
On the second day, take two pills at dawn and two at dusk.
Or 25 Metoquine pills can be taken instead of Aralén.
Take 3 pills each day, one at dawn, one at noon, and one at dusk, until the 25 pills are gone.
How to feed children
When a creature does not eat enough, it is not in good health and cries continuously.
Maybe the mom doesn't have enough milk.
Then you have to buy powdered milk and give it to the child, following the instructions on the can.
Everything we eat has vitamins and proteins and other substances that give us strength.
When the child is about four months old, he should gradually start eating other foods in addition to suckling.
Give him about two tablespoons of soft foods each day.
Each week you can give him a little more, until he eats a plate of food daily.
These are the foods you should eat:
A warm egg.
Cooked oatmeal.
Strained atole.
A piece of banana ground and mixed with a little bit of cooked water.
Orange juice with a little sugar.
When he grows a little more, he should eat everything.
Some General Recommendations
It is recommended that vegetables be added to foods at least once a day, such as spinach, chard, purslane, chelites, or carrots.
The usual condiments such as: tomato, garlic, onion and chili will be used daily.
Sauces should be consumed, preferably, raw.
At least three times a week, the consumption of fruit is recommended, preferably banana or the cheapest of the season, such as guava, papaya and melon.
The younger child should be given a glass of milk four times a week.
Otherwise, children should consume the same diet as the rest of the family.
Fresh food should be carefully washed before consumption.
All family members should wash their hands before each meal.
Food should be protected from contact with insects and rodents.
If the family has financial resources above the minimum wage, it is advisable to give the children a glass of milk and include a plate with food of animal origin and a fruit once every day.
This diet meets all the daily nutritional needs of each of the family members.
Measuring Spoons
There are two measuring spoon sizes, the soup spoon and the dessert spoon
When the recipe calls for a tablespoon or a teaspoon, the appropriate one should be filled to the bottom.
When measuring ingredients for making breads or cakes,
measurements must be exact. They should be neither more nor less than what is indicated.
Measuring Cups
There are some special cups that are used as measures for cooking.
These cups are whole when the content (what you want to measure) reaches the edge.
If the content of a cup is divided into 2 equal parts, each part will be 1/2 cup.
If divided into 4 equal parts, each part is 1/4 cup.
How to bake a cake
There is a good and simple way to bake sweet bread or cake.
It is not necessary to have an oven to make cakes, if they are made as indicated in this book; only a large frying pan with lid is required.
When the cake ingredients are already mixed, grease the pan with oil or shortening, and then pour the mixture into the pan.
Cover the pan with the lid.
Then put it on the comal in the fire.
With a spoon, put some burning coals on the lid of the pan.
Few are needed, because if the comal and the coals are very hot, the cake will burn
In this way you can bake any kind of cake you want.
Orange cake
In a bowl, mix:
It is left while the cake mixture is being prepared.
In another bowl mix:
In another looming bowl:
Then stir well well,
but you don't have to add the orange juice and sugar because first you have to bake the cake and when you take the cake out of the heat
the orange juice is rubbed and the sugar is ready.
if there is no milk, you can use water
cup of mashed banana
Put the contents of the two bowls together and mix well.
When everything is ready, a mold or frying pan is smeared with butter and the cake is thrown there to cook it.
Put the contents of the two bowls together and mix well.
When everything is ready, a mold or frying pan is smeared with butter and the cake is thrown there to cook it.
Mix all ingredients well.
Put it in a greased pan.
Put 4 sliced ​​apples on top of the cake and cook according to the instructions on page 12.
Combine flour, baking powder (Royal), sugar and salt.
Add the egg and water and mix well.
Grease a frying pan and cook according to the instructions on page 12.
Cornbread
cups nixtamal dough
Combine the dough and butter or oil.
Add the egg and beat well.
Add the rest of the ingredients and mix them.
Put this mixture in a pan
and cook it according to the instructions on page 12.
Mix flour, baking powder (Royal) and salt.
Mix them with the butter or the oil and the milk or the water.
Grease a pan and heat it.
Pour a few tablespoons of the mixture into the pan. Let cook until golden brown on one side.
When they are golden, turn them over.
Put a lid on the pan. Occasionally you should see if the buns are already there, and when they are cooked, you have to remove the pan from the fire.
Yeast Bread
It is necessary to bake the yeast bread in a large oven.
This part of the book explains how to do it.
Needed:
Put the dough in the large pot and spread a little oil or butter on top of the dough. Cover the pot with a cloth and wait until the dough rises. It will take approximately two hours.
medium tomatoes
sprig of oregano
Fry the noodle in the butter until golden.
Grind the tomato, garlic and onion and fry them.
Add a liter of water with the salt to the sauce and leave it until it starts to boil.
Add the noodle and a sprig of oregano.
Let it boil until the noodle is cooked.
Chicken soup
chile tepe to taste
salt to taste
Grind the onion, garlic, tomato and hot pepper and add them to the liquid.
If desired, add half a cup of rice and a tablespoon of chicken broth.
Let it boil for an hour.
medium potatoes
salt and pepper to taste
Peel the potatoes and cut them into strips.
Chop the onion and together with the potatoes, cover them with water, bringing them to a boil.
Nu ja ni chihyo vaha tɨcuɨtɨ un ti complaha jnanu. Yucan na ti chuhun yo lechu un nuu nu cuni yo
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Peel and cut the chayotes into four equal parts.
Cover with salted water and bring to a boil.
Grind the rest of the ingredients and stir well.
Then add them to the chayotes and let them cook until smooth.
cold tortillas cut into strips
tablespoon chopped onion
roasted poblano peppers, deveined and cut into slices
cup tomato puree
minced garlic clove
Fry the tortillas in very hot oil.
Then brown the onion and garlic in 4 tablespoons of oil or butter.
Add the tomato puree and fry for a few minutes.
Add the water that has the chicken broth with the epazote and simmer for 10 minutes.
Add the chili slices.
Put the fried tortillas on a plate and pour the broth over it.
tortilla
Cut the tortillas into squares, heat the butter in the saucepan and pour the tortilla squares until golden.
Slice the garlic and onion and put them in the saucepan.
Grind the tomato, salt, chili and epazote and add them to the casserole.
Add the golden tortillas.
Fry them in the butter. Stir constantly until sauce thickens.
Serve the sauce with chicken or pork.
lightly fried tortillas
fried eggs in butter
Chop the tomatoes and onion.
In a frying pan, put the tablespoon of butter.
When it is very hot, put on the chili slices.
Add the tomatoes and let them season, with salt to taste
Place the tortillas on a plate and the eggs on top.
Bathe in the hot sauce.
In a frying pan or pot, fry the cabbage in the butter or oil until it is a little golden.
Add the water and salt.
Milk in a hot pot. Add cabbage and salt.
Fry the onion, zucchini and slices in the butter or oil.
Gradually add the cornmeal and broth, stirring constantly so that lumps do not form.
ripe avocados
tablespoon lemon juice (if any)
Peel the avocados and mash them together with the tomato.
Grind the onion and chili and add them.
Add lemon juice if you have it.
Mix well until you have a smooth paste.
Sweet Bananas
Grease a pan or casserole with oil or butter.
Put the bananas in the pan.
Mix the oil or butter, the brown sugar or sugar and the water, and pour it over the bananas.
Combine all ingredients and put them in a pan.
Cover tightly and cook until carrots are well cooked.
Bring the sugar and cinnamon to a boil in one liter of water.
Meanwhile, clean and cut the handles.
How to Dry Bananas
The bananas to be dried must be very ripe.
They should not be peeled.
Put the bananas in a place where there is sun for 4 or 5 days.
Bananas should not get wet.
They should be sunned during the day and stored at night in a dry place.
Combine all four ingredients and leave on low heat until the water dries.
Fry the rice in butter over low heat, moving it until the rice is lightly golden.
Slice the onion and garlic, and add them to the rice. Add the ground tomato, ground chili, and peppermint.
Cook the rice in the water.
Season with cinnamon and sugar.
When the rice is cooked, stir it with the milk.
Move away from heat and serve hot.
Cook the rice, cinnamon and brown sugar in the milk.
To the boiling water, add the salt and oats.
It cooks for two to five minutes, moving from time to time.
Remove from the heat and cover, leaving to rest for 5 minutes.
Combine the brown sugar, cornstarch, salt, and milk powder.
Add the egg and water and mix well.
Put it in a pan over low heat.
It got lost.
I pick it up.
He spoke well of him.
He looked at her face.
Trees were matched.
The animal came out.
The animal got angry.
"The animal backed away."
Yesterday they stayed at the house.
The day after tomorrow they will stay at the house again
What is this?
What is its owner's name?
What color is this car?
It was painted blue.
Here you see cane.
Let's chew cane.
The cane is sweet when chewed
This pencil is not straight.
It is wrapped, it is not straight.
If the pencil is not straight, it is difficult to write with it.
This pencil itself is straight.
This rope is not thick
This rope is thick
That herb is leathery.
That herb is sharp.
Is that thing still
There is one of those things
The boy is young.
your nail
The earth was ripped apart.
The earth was drilled.
Yesterday he went to Acatlán.
"The day after tomorrow he will go there again"
Is ironing
The car makes noise
Enters
The animal stinks
the candle went out
We apply hot promotions
That thing is your gift
The fruit was spoiled.
Sucked on a sweet thing.
It is ixtle.
It is a very expensive thing.
There is no rain in this region
His eyes are covered, because he is blind.
We were going to the plaza.
We counted money.
The sun was hidden under the clouds.
Yesterday the chicks hatched.
Yawns because he's sleepy
Is tied up
The animal's mother is already old.
The animal's breeding has to grow.
It is really hot today.
Before it wasn't so hot.
The dog is a thief dog.
Better to kill him.
I plan to go there.
It is old.
inside the truck
The stick is hot.
Hit the animal.
Kill the animal.
Burned trash yesterday.
Today he will no longer burn it.
That animal got sick from the lungs.
It's not going to change.
He bought a sheet.
There is a lot of dirt on your foot.
There is a lot of smoke in the sky.
It grew very leafy.
We do not eat the lungs.
We are going to water the irrigation land.
He is sitting there suffering.
There it is in the irrigation.
He went to buy goat meat.
He went to water.
The stick loosened.
Belch.
He is diligent.
It is owl.
That animal is fat.
He is the youngest son.
The comal turned black.
I come with him.
The leaf is very green.
We are going to kill the mouse.
The shotgun is going to shoot
We are going to Veracruz.
Put it in your bag.
You milk that cow.
He wants to have more land.
narrow door
is sweating
The boy grabbed two animals.
He tied the donkey with a strong knot in the rope.
We are taller than you.
They all went to Acatlán
He burned a finger on the fire.
All the bedbugs in the house died.
There are many fleas there.
But for you it is good.
My creature is very squeaky.
These corn is tasty.
The road is very slippery due to the rain.
Bring eggs to eat on the way.
The musicians are playing in the center because there is a party.
I follow that man down the ravine.
Tomorrow we are going to Acatlán to speak to a wise man.
Yesterday we talked together about the house, if it was along the way, or crossed.
He ground the beans and made ground beans.
It is not difficult to walk at night now, because the moon shines.
Today we are going to Huajuapan.
There are no prickly pears today.
He came first.
He will not give it away, because it is very mean.
Good afternoon, Grandpa.
I've already started knitting another hat.
That man is chewing on a reed pipe.
The man has a sore nose.
"El compadre" is a small animal and it is customary to accompany the scorpion.
How to walk in Mexico
The first time I came to Mexico I felt very ugly,
because there were many cars and everything was very dangerous,
and I did not understand why there were so many streets.
To me all the streets seemed the same; but it's not like that
Zama si zuhva calle ta vehe cun cuii ñi cuhva caa si.
When I came to Mexico the first time, it was very difficult for me to walk.
Little by little I got to know Mexico better and got to know the streets.
Then I knew where I was going
It was not until a month after I arrived that I began to get to know the streets and then I was able to walk alone.
When two months had passed, I was no longer afraid. After three months I was able to go anywhere I wanted.
But if you only have a month there, you don't know very well. You can lose or a car can kill you.
You cannot cross in the middle of the block, because there are many cars.
They pass almost touching each other. If a car kills someone, who knows if the ambulance would come to take them to the hospital
It is very difficult to walk in Mexico, because it is very dangerous.
You need to know very well, because if not, you can lose and there are many people in Mexico.
If you forget one of the streets, you will not be able to get home
But if you already have time in Mexico, then it is no longer difficult.
This is what happened to me when I arrived in Mexico the first time.
but then I got used to it.
How tortillas are made
When we plant corn, it takes ten to twelve months to get the ear.
First the land is cleaned and the garbage is burned. Then fallow by hand or with oxen.
The land is stirred with the team and then the furrows are made with the plow.
Once the furrows have been made, planting begins with a coa.
When all the milpitas do not come out, it is necessary to re-sow where they did not come out.
As the cornfields grow, the land is cleared once. After a month it is cleaned a second time.
When the ear begins to sprout, it can be pinched and ear tortillas are made.
Then the jilotes come out, which when growing are called elotes. These can be pinched and made into tamales, or corn tortillas.
The ear can be pinched when the cornfield dries; the ears that will be used as seed the other year are separated, but they are kept next to the others in the troje.
How tortillas are made: First, the cob is removed from the kernel and shelled.
Then the corn that is shelled is cooked. Add some lime to the water and wait until the corn is cooked. Then it is removed from the fire.
When the corn cools, it is washed and taken to the mill to make the dough.
Back in the house with the dough, the tortillas are made.
The tortillas that are being made are put on the comal for them to cook. When they are ready they can be eaten.
A Man Asks For A Wife For His Godson
I had an engagement, because my compadre told me that I had to find a wife for my godson.
I spoke to him to find out what family the girl is from, and he told me which house he lived in.
We went to the house, and my godson was happy to ask his wife.
We talked to the father of the girl my godson chose as a companion.
The Lord gave us a term of fifteen days; and when we went again, she told us that her daughter did want to marry my godson, but that we would do things little by little, with the grace of God, and she gave us another
Then we went again, and she said there was hope, because her daughter was fond of my godson. But he told us:
-We have to wait a little longer. At the end that time will tell, because now there are hopes, and it does not make it a year.
But then I said: -If your daughter really wants to get married, a little time is enough; but if the girl does not care for my godson, then we will look elsewhere. Then he said to me:
-Well, we are going to settle the matter, but we have to wait another three months.
Three months were up, and then we went to see dad again. He told us that the girl did want to marry my godson, and gave another three-month deadline.
When the deadline was met, we went again to close the deal, and we had a little party. We carry tepache and buy brandy. When we arrived at his house, we entered, we greeted and said the paragon.
Meanwhile, the relatives of the couple got together. Later, the best man of the bride asked the groom if he had thought it through and wanted that girl to be his partner.
In the same way, the groom's best man asked the bride if she had already thought it through, and if she wanted the boy to be her husband. The bride replied:
Yes, I thought about it well and I want him to be my husband
"Hasn't your sister, or your aunt, or your uncle forced you?" Because if so, maybe tomorrow or the day after they will start fighting.
But the girlfriend said that no one had forced her, that she had thought about it very well.
When we finished talking, the parents and relatives of the bride received some food. They ate many tortillas and drank brandy; they took tepache and smoked cigars.
Then the dance began and everyone danced with pleasure, because at last everything was arranged for the bride and groom to get married.
The next day we went to the municipality and arrived with the authorities.
The request was made, and the groom's parents went to sign the paper.
Afterward, the groom went to Tlaxiaco to secure the role of the marriage.
When the groom returned, authorities asked them if there had been anyone who forced them to marry. But they answered that no, that everything had been done because they had thought about it very well.
The judge advised my compadre to be very careful and patient with his daughter-in-law.
Then he married them together and we had a big party. That day two goats and two sheep were killed and we made a good expense.
We made tepache. We bought brandy and cigarettes and many people were invited for the wedding.
This is how my godson found a wife, and I gave him many tips to take care of his wife.
I also advised the wife to obey her husband, so that they can live well, because if not, they will begin to quarrel and they will not be able to live well. That's what I told you when you got married.
MIXTECAS CUSTOMS
TIPS FROM A MOTHER TO HER PROMISED DAUGHTER IN MARRIAGE
WEDDING
Advice from a mother to her promised daughter in marriage
- If you want to get married, (today they ask me to give it to them) go to them.
Well go, but see that you don't change your mind later and come back here; see that you are not lazy in caring for animals;
see that you are not lazy in making their tortillas; see that you are not lazy; See that you do not insult them, especially your mother-in-law, when you arrive.
Today you are given to them to go to their house. Don't offend them when you get there. You will be respectful to them.
Do they eat chelite?
Make it salty or spicy according to your taste; grind your atole for them to drink; prepare your food.
Do everything in order so you don't embarrass us.
Give them an omelette when they ask for it and give them their bottle when they want it.
When you go to your in-laws' house, do well; don't insult them.
Leave behind the customs we have in this house.
Do we prefer salty food?
Do we prefer it without seasoning?
It doesn't matter anymore.
Now that will be your home. The work they do will be what you do, and the work they do well, so will you.
Let them rule. Make sure they can eat in peace. Get up to grind corn when it's still night. Raise chickens and pigs.
They are people who have goats, so take care of them.
They are people who have cattle, so take them to pasture even in the rainy season when you get wet;
And so you will do for your husband: you will wash his clothes and prepare his food;
you will make tortillas for me to eat; you will grind very well for him. This is how you will do when you leave.
See that you don't change your mind and come back to us, embarrassing us.
That way they would not insult and send us to jail and we would be ashamed.
If you like to go, go ahead; but if you don't really like it, don't go. See that you don't embarrass us.
Then the daughter answers like this:
`` I'm definitely leaving, '' he says. I want to marry him. If I go.
--Well OK. We have already taken you at your word today.
See that you don't say we compel you.
You are leaving today, but don't come back here because you would embarrass us.
That's what they say.
That is the advice they give their daughters.
Wedding
When the parents finish advising their daughter, they go and notify the women and men on the maternal side, that is, the sisters and brothers of the mother.
Maybe there are four or five women and four or five men.
After that, they go and notify the men on Dad's side.
Maybe he has two or three brothers and they say:
They are looking for our little girl.
- Should we give it to them?
--And they answer like this:
"And why give it to them?"
They are bad people; they are wild, they are bad, they fight with their daughters-in-law.
Why give it to them?
Why consent to that?
- Because of the little girl, because she wants to go; for her, because she wants to go - the parents say.
So they say:
--Okay. There is no remedy.
If she wants to go herself, then let her go.
But be careful not to get lazy "
Women also say the same thing.
They return to the house; and when the boy's family arrives they send word that they kill an animal that may be a goat or an ox:
"Go buy an ox to kill it; Buy both soft drinks, both brandy and a dozen and a half chickens.
We have a lot of family, both women and men. They are many. They send the boy's family. But their dad begs them:
`` Cut back a little. Poor us! Cut back a little.
"We will not lower," says the girl's father, "because we have many relatives; they are almost a whole town and eat a lot.
Then the boy's family leaves. Then they come back and say:
`` Then lower even a little.
Poor us!
They lower a little, then, and the negotiations are concluded. The boy's parents leave and then return.
`` The party will be this or that day, '' the girl's parents say, `` maybe Monday or Tuesday. On that day the whole family will be.
This way they communicate the date of the party to all the relatives, both the boy's and the girl's. Everyone will gather on that day. On that day, relatives from both sides arrive.
The goats have already been killed, the meat has arrived, the goats' heads have already boiled. All the girl's relatives are on this side, the boy's relatives are on that side.
Hers are here; those who are going to take her there. Hers are here; those who are going to take her there. Everyone has arrived and begins to eat.
So they go and invite the catechist and the commissioner to the wedding:
`` Come and watch today's wedding, '' says the girl's family.
You, the authorities, come to observe the wedding because they are looking for our little girl. Come to be witnesses.
Look, we are not guilty of overeating.
Look we are not guilty of receiving too much money for the girlfriend.
Come, Mr. Catechist; And Mr. Commissioner and Alternate and Commander. Come to our house.
Now they know that we love them as our witnesses.
Then the authorities go to the house, and when the girl's family arrive they say:
- At this time we want you to know, Mr. Catechist and Commissioner, that my friend and his family came for our little girl; They came to look for her among us so that we could give her to her.
Three or four, up to five times they came, but we refused to consent. They tried to force us.
At last, we accept our daughter's decision; We agree to hand it over to you.
That is why we have asked them to come, since they are the commissioner and catechist.
We want you to know today that this is what we have done with our daughter.
We will not be to blame.
Are we the ones who wanted to give it to them?
It was they who wanted her.
They were pleased to come here and ask for it; and that is why we answer their request in this way.
Then the commissioner and the catechist call to the bride: "Come here," they say.
They put their rods to a standstill; the catechist has one and the commissioner has one.
And with their standing sticks they say:
`` Get on your knees.
They put a duffel there and he comes forward on his knees. Then the commissioner asks for your vote:
"Do you like going to these people's houses?"
--I like it.
--Really?
--Really.
"Isn't there someone cheating on you? Your aunt?"
Your brother? Isn't there anyone cheating on you?
--No one.
`` Does the desire to go home come from your own heart?
`` It sprouts from my own heart.
--Okay.
But don't fool the rod and don't fool us.
You cannot fool the rod because it is the rod of the child Jesus Christ.
Are you really not cheating on her?
--Really.
--Okay. Okay, he says.
Then the bride and groom cross themselves with the rod.
Now the catechist asks for his vote, so she walks past him and he says to her:
`` Do you really want to go live in their house?
Isn't there anyone cheating on you? Is your mom pawning you?
"They are not pawning me; it is my own love.
`` Do you really like going to their house?
`` I really like him.
`` Well that's fine because the stick is here.
This is the rod of the child Jesus Christ.
You can fool us, but you cannot fool the rod.
We are the ones who have sin.
But this is the rod of Jesus Christ and he had no sin.
`` Okay, '' say the authorities.
The girl returns to her place and now the boy comes forward.
They also ask for his vote:
`` Is it true what you will tell us, José?
He comes forward on his knees.
`` Is it true, José?
Is it true that you want to marry this little Maria?
It is true?
`` It is true, Lord, it is true.
I would like.
`` Isn't your mom or dad forcing you?
--The desire was born in my own mind.
`` In my own heart?
`` In my own heart.
--Okay. It's okay.
Is there no one forcing you?
Not even your brother? Not even your aunt? Nor is anyone cheating on you to marry Maria?
`` No, nobody, '' says the boy.
--Okay. It's okay.
Then the catechist crosses himself in front of the staff.
`` Well, hug each other now, '' say the commissioner and the catechist.
Then they hug, and then the boy takes out a necklace and places it around the girl's neck.
The girl takes a handkerchief and places it around the boy's neck.
So they do. That's how it ends.
And the boy receives her and they go and sit in an adjacent room. The table is set for the catechist, the commissioner and the authorities to eat.
And then the girl's relatives and the boy's relatives begin to eat and drink.
When all are finished they take the girl, and leaving the house they accompany her to the house of those who will receive her.
The lizard
The lizard is an iguana-like animal, but smaller, which can usually be found anywhere.
It reproduces by eggs, which are buried by females in places where loose soil exists. It is very common to see it walking in wasteland where there are mallows or bushes, in the rainy season is when we can find a considerable number of this species.
They are reptiles that do not cause any harm to human beings, instead, there are children who are struck by the size of this little animal;
sometimes they dedicate themselves to killing them, either with stones, slingshots and garters, making staples with wire, especially for this purpose; It is not uncommon to find groups of children running after these animals.
They say that the consequences are painful, since days later a cut appears on one of the toes, or on the smallest toe, which makes children suffer since, for many days, they will not be able to wear huaraches, it is a nuisance that will teach them not to kill these defenseless beings.
The Rainbow
In the rainy season it is common to see the rainbow in the sky.
Grandparents tell of this color combination that it is produced by a snake found in a nearby stream,
who emits from his mouth a kind of lightning, which is reflected in space. When it's raining and a rainbow appears,
it is a sign that it is not going to continue raining, so whoever wants to do some activity in the field can do it, because the rainbow stops the water.
Children love to play during and after the rain,
but when a rainbow appears parents advise children not to point the finger at it because it may "eat" the finger.
Some children for fear of running out of fingers prefer not to test this belief. From this we must learn that we must have respect for this phenomenon and others related to nature.
BROOM
From a very young age, children learn that they must collaborate in activities in the fields and at home, specifically cleaning in the house or on the patio.
They learn it by imitating the way they see parents doing this task.
Some parents induce the child from an early age to make good use of the material they are using at that time, such as the broom.
The elders advise children not to sweep a person's feet, nor to allow themselves to be swept, because they say that they will not find a husband or wife their own age, but an older one.
That is why, when a person sees someone who is sweeping, he stands aside, especially if he is single, because he would not like the above to be fulfilled in the future. In addition to this, it is not advisable to sweep at night because the little economic resource that one possesses "moves away from the house" and one would be suffering from deficiencies by not paying the person money.
The skunk
It is a wild animal, of regular size, that lives in the forest; by the way, it gives off a very strong smell when you urinate. He goes out to look for his food at night, in the day in very few occasions.
Different beliefs have been woven around this animal, for example, when a person goes out at night to look for an armadillo, if he were to see a skunk he will almost certainly not get any armadillo,
but if this animal urinates your dog. It is believed that it is bad to find a skunk when a person goes hunting.
Sometimes, in the town you get to smell the skunk smell, people know that later misfortunes will happen that will affect the tranquility of the town,
although the animal does not precisely reach the town, because the smell given off by its urine covers great distances;
but the skunk uses urine as a means to protect itself from its enemies, as well as to escape when it is in danger.
The cat
In many houses the cat is kept as a pet, people adopt it because it is good to kill mice and in this way live in a house without the damage caused by rodents.
Cats meow when they are hungry or in heat. During the day they dedicate themselves to sleep, at night they give themselves up to hunt mice.
But it is believed that despite living with people, it bears the omen that something unexpected or tragic will happen in the house.
When he begins to meow at night on the roof of the house, some people associate it with evil; Others prefer not to have them at home, for fear of that special way they communicate.
Fright
In the town there are many healers who are dedicated to caring for the sick with fright, the symptoms they present are very varied,
just as different are the places and the ways in which one can be frightened: the fact of seeing something unexpected, that they speak to someone at a time when they are physically and mentally busy.
Fright can trigger different discomforts.
The healers use the pulse of the hand to be able to take care of the patient, this is of utmost importance to know if it should be cured with herbs taken or spread, with copal or with egg. Therefore, in the town it is not customary to interrupt a person who is engaged in some activity, or when they find that someone has been scared, they should hit the person lightly with branches on different parts of the body, they should also drink water, With this, the fear is somewhat annulled, ensuring that in the future it does not result in an evil that damages the person.
That is why, in the town it is not customary to interrupt a person who is engaged in some activity, or when they realize that someone has been frightened, they should hit the person lightly with branches on different parts of the body, they should also drink water,
With this, the fear is somewhat annulled, ensuring that in the future it does not result in an evil that damages the person.
Ask for the rain
Rain is the most important thing for the preservation of life, that is why it cannot be absent in Jicayán in the period in which it is destined to rain.
If for some reason the water is delayed, people comment that it is a punishment that is imposed on them because some member of the community misused it, also for the fact of doing physical harm to the people of the same community.
There have been periods of up to a month or more when the rain has stopped, so the entire population gathers to visit the nearby water hole, where they take the saints, including the patron saint of the town.
With devotion water is requested, at the same time that the saints are bathed. Sometimes they barely manage to get home, so it can start to rain.
It is the only way that the villagers manage to communicate with the rain god, in addition to the sins they have been forgiven.
The iguanero dog
A home without a dog is not complete, so in no house should this animal be missing;
Although it is true, there is a lot of difference between the treatment or care given by mestizos (looking after the house or property) and the indigenous people (being a faithful companion).
The dogs are not locked up but always accompany the farmer to help him hunt armadillos and iguanas.
It should be added that there are dogs that are good for hunting or herding animals, such as deer, goats and cows.
On this occasion, we will talk about the dogs that catch armadillos or iguanas, these are highly coveted and from a young age it shows when they are going to be good because they have a fingernail that hangs on their hind legs.
Care should be taken when they start hunting because if in the family they fight for iguana meat (it happens among children), or it is not shared between neighbors, or if the armadillo meat is given to the lover,
the dog is sure to "get hurt"; that is, it will no longer grab armadillos or iguanas.
Wind
When it is the rainy season, it is expected that it will rain in a moderate way, or if it is strong, but without wind, because rain with wind is not desired by the peasants because it mistreats the cornfield, which is why gives little corn production.
In some years the experience of strong rains with wind has been lived, which has caused a shortage of corn;
the elderly believe that it is due to a punishment for selling the corn dearly, or because people from other neighboring towns are wind naguals who take advantage of the rain to cause damage to the fields, out of rancor or envy.
It is said that the people who suffer these damages, it is because they have also done wrong to other people or because they have the same nagual,
other times when they see the wind coming they go and protect their cornfield so that it is not mistreated.
Dog fight at a party
In the town, stewardships, weddings, "estates", among other celebrations, are traditional.
Usually they occur in places where many people attend, some supporting with their work, others as guests, but all with the idea of ​​living with the celebrated.
As we must know, in addition to the fact that people attend, it must also be pointed out that dogs, animals that arrive uninvited, or come accompanying their owners, are never lacking.
Many times the dogs fulfill the function of cleaning the place where the party takes place, since they collect all the food waste, but when a considerable amount of these animals of different sizes and breeds are found, fights usually arise, either because of waste or because they are unknown to each other.
When this happens, older people comment that you have to be forewarned because surely someone under the influence of alcohol will provoke a quarrel at the party.
The fact that the dogs are fighting is taken as a warning and not as a mere coincidence or something temporary.
Planting a fruit tree
It is very common in the town to grow many fruit trees such as: nanches. guavas, mangoes, plums, mameyes, sapodilla, etc.
Part of people's diet is based on the fruits that these plants provide, but the secret that we will talk about lies in the special way in which they are planted. Have you wondered why some fruit trees from very young begin to bear fruit and Others have not produced for years?
The peasants know that every fruit tree should be planted when the moon is in the waning stage, in addition to requiring special care to prevent the muleteers and animals such as cows, horses, donkeys, mistreating it, because this delays its development.
In such a way that people do not depend on grafted trees, since they think that if they want a good harvest, everything will depend on care; in addition to the fact that it is forbidden for women of any age to go up to lower the fruits of these trees, because if they are sweet fruits they will become bland, so the parents scold the girls who climb the fruit trees.
SEEING WHERE THE DOGS PAIR
Some domestic animals are used by the people of the town for their food, others to help them in their survival;
We can say that between man and animal there is a close relationship, in such a way that we learn to decipher the sounds produced by animals as a means of communication, to such an extent that the behaviors of animals are normal for people.
Although there are some behaviors that adults do not want children to observe, such as the mating of dogs, which is common to see on the streets,
By the time the dogs are found in this action, the children know that they should not see them, because a "knob" will appear in their eyes, which is a granite that sprouts in the lower part of the eyelids. Some for fear of the pain that this entails close their eyes, others risk to verify this belief but they will have to support the discomfort in the eyes for several days.
Changing places from time to time
At the time of eating, children are advised to sit down to eat their food, eating while walking is not allowed because you must have a deep respect for what you eat, because it is what will give life to the body.
At a certain age children tend to walk from one place to another; so the grandparents say that you should not change seats, because as an adult you will walk, if you are a child, with one and the other woman, and if you are a woman, with one and the other man, and this is frowned upon by the indigenous culture, because the monogamous family is preserved.
The children are reprimanded, and they return to the first place where they sat down to finish with their food, with the illusion that when they grow up they can get a single partner with which to form their family.
In addition to this, they always take care that children do not sit on the metate or on the sharpening stone, because if they do not grow up, they will only breed girls or boys.
The nagual
It is believed that from a very young age, children have a human and an animal side, that is, at birth they are assigned an animal that will take care of them, and that will have the same characteristics as the child.
Somehow the grandparents know the child's nagual, but the child should not know him because he will be very sensitive to what happens to him in the afterlife.
With this understanding, many people observe the physical features of another person and are very skilled at nicknames, which refers to the animal that is their nagual.
Hence, the elderly prohibit the killing of animals because it is as if a person was killed, and if they have friends or relatives who are larger or more powerful animals, they can "claim" them,
and from there serious problems of physical aggression result in the afterlife, of which dreams are the only way to find out.
Make evil eye
The human being is conceived as something very complex, because there are times when he is very strong and others when he is very weak. Because of this, when you are a baby, special care is required,
in such a way that it can touch "bad airs", for which you should always carry a bracelet with a walnut so that nothing happens to it, because there are people who can harm the child.
For example, when a person admires a physical feature of the child (eyes, mouth, hair, etc.) and does not lend it to him to carry it, it is certain that the child will not sleep at night, he will spend crying ,
until the person who saw him put a little saliva on it, or in his case they make him sleep in a dirty shirt of the father. On other occasions, his eyes will turn red and he will get a legaña, so they must spread a ranch chicken egg all over his body, that will be the cure for this discomfort.
The owl
This wild animal is not common to see it in the day, and less in the town; many people do not know it, they have only seen it in books.
However, the belief that our ancestors have transmitted to us is that it is a messenger from beyond, in the sense that it is the bird that comes to communicate that a person is going to die, that is why they are so afraid of it.
This fear is not due to the size of his eyes but to the meaning of the song of this animal, because when he sings an owl in a tree near the house where someone lives, it is a sign that he or a neighbor will die within a few days.
Only when the song is at dusk it is thought that the person will take some other days, but when it is at dawn, it may be hours or a day that will be left to live.
The black dog
The dog in our culture has had a special place, due to the fact that he is a faithful companion of man, in addition to helping him to get his food.
But, the black dog has a special meaning, since our grandparents talk that this animal should not be beaten, or left tied up in the rain when taking care of the cornfield in the bush, because if it is harmed, when the dog and the person die, will not help the owner, or who has treated him badly to cross the river that exists in the afterlife
Because it is believed that in the afterlife there is a very large river that the person who dies must cross; and if he did not hit the animal, it will be waiting for the owner to climb on his back and cross it in that deep river; since as we have to know dogs are very good swimmers.
Therefore, it is better to take care of this animal so that we can have its help.
Eat in a dark place
It is very common that at night parents or grandparents delight in telling stories or tales to children. This activity usually starts in the afternoons, after arriving from the field, so sometimes children forget to have dinner, although on many occasions they take advantage of the space between one story and another to go for a taco to the kitchen .
But when the grandparents return, they do not allow the children to eat there, because they say that no one should eat any food in dark places, because when he grows up he can be blamed for a crime or theft without being the one who committed it, or otherwise people can raise false that affect your person.
So when someone wants to eat something, it is better to do it in illuminated places, so that when he is a citizen he has a good image and can serve and occupy positions of popular election.
Give the armadillo meat to a lover
Jicayán is one of the towns that practice the armadillo hunting; the vast majority of people go to other places such as the shoal, near the sea, to hunt armadillos with their dogs.
For this activity they are organized among family members and they are looking for a dog that has the ability to capture these animals, sometimes they spend up to a week in those places to take advantage of the trip.
The armadillos that they hunt distribute them to them, these serve as a source of food for the families, in addition to selling the surplus in the same town.
But hunters are very careful about the meat of this animal, because the elders say that they should not give it to a lover,
because the dog that went to grab the armadillos is "damaged", and it is very difficult to hunt again as before.
Burying the dead with his belongings.
In addition to parties, it is common to accompany family or friends in sad times, when someone dies, as a sign of support.
In general, in these events, black beans are offered as food, in addition to alcoholic beverages that mitigate pain in difficult times.
After veiling the body, he is taken to be buried in the pantheon, there is a belief that there is life in the afterlife, for this reason the deceased must be accompanied by all his belongings that he used on earth, so that he can survive in that other world.
Among the things with which the body is buried we can mention: clothes, a bule of water, work instruments, plates and jicars.
Hence, the relatives who do not deposit the aforementioned to one side of the deceased, are criticized by the population when considering them as inhuman.
The power of people with two "whirlpools" on their heads
One of the widespread beliefs in the town is regarding the power of people who have two "whirlpools" in their hair;
These eddies can be found as two circles in the central part of the head; that is why when a child has these characteristics they take care of him because he is very sensitive to anger and can die prematurely, hence these beings have a special place within the family.
It is said that they have a special power to multiply all the products they sow, such as:
corn, beans, squash, chili, etc. So where there is someone with these attributes it is rare that food is needed; Usually these people work little and produce a lot, because they believe in the possibility of an extraordinary yield from their tillage.
When it trembles
When natural phenomena are amazing, the human being looks for some explanations, this is the case of tremors. Because Jicayán is in a seismic place, our parents have learned to interpret these events.
In Jicayán it rains frequently, many times it is not possible to predict how many days it will rain, but the elderly know that when it trembles on one of those days it is certain that the water will continue for many more days; in the same way, when it trembles on days when it has not rained, it is taken as a sign that the rain will be removed for many days. These beliefs help the farmer to plan some activities that he carries out.
The tremors also cause the water wells that exist in the community to dry up, and as a result there is a shortage of water.
The eclipse of the moon
One of the well-known natural phenomena in the population are the so-called eclipses. When people observe this phenomenon, they usually sound the objects they find, such as boats, cans, pitchers,
in addition to ringing the church bell, to revive the moon, because the lunar eclipse is as if the moon is passing away. It is said that pregnant women should hide so that it does not affect them, because if they leave without protection, when the baby is born, they will have a cleft lip.
The way to protect yourself is by wearing a garment from your husband or covering your head with a shirt; In addition, the pregnant woman is not allowed to sleep during this time, so that the moon does not harm the new being.
When looking for Chepiles
The chepiles are one of the favorite vegetables of the jicayanenses; Two types of chepiles are distinguished: the one with a green stem and the red one, the latter being the most delicious. We can find these herbs in the field or in the patio of the houses; This food is usually consumed in all households because it is part of traditional food.
The farmer, after finishing his activities in the field, cuts the chepiles so that when they get home, the wife can cook them and enjoy them together. But there is a belief that not everyone can cut chepiles, because when a person who is sick bathes in warm water, will not have the special smell given off by the leaves when cut, therefore they will not be tasty.
So it is better that when we get sick we do not take a bath with warm water, because this will make it impossible for us to cut this delicious herb.
What is done with the placenta of a newborn baby
The placenta is essential for the baby during his stay inside the mother. The birth of a boy or a girl is something that has a lot of meaning for our people,
and somehow the placenta contains valuable information to know how many more children the woman who gave birth may have, in addition to revealing whether they will be boys or girls.
When the little balls that the placenta contains are very black they will be males and if they are not so dark then more women will surely be born. Midwives have a prominent role in deciphering this information; In addition, from the house, it is suggested to bury the placenta nearby, so that the new being gets used to his new home very soon and when he grows up, do not forget town.
Although on the other hand, it is dangerous because it causes lightning to strike in the rainy season.
When they are making tamales
The women of Jicayán usually make tamales for family consumption or for a celebration, these can be chicken, armadillo, marrano, rabbit, turkey, among others.
During the time that they are dedicated to making tamales fingers and putting them in the pots, strangers are not allowed to come, because they can cause them not to cook as they should, and get them "the fox", that is, they are not cooked properly. Sometimes the pot takes a long time on the fire without cooking the tamales,
until they put two red chilies in the shape of a cross, or put a molcajete stone inside it, so that "the fox" is removed so that the tamales can be enjoyed.
Day of the Death
All Saints or Day of the Dead is one of the most traditional festivals in the town and in the Costa region. On the days that this celebration comprises, it is adorned with marigold flowers and arches resembling a vault, and candles are lit,
in addition to preparing the necessary food for the dead to enjoy everything they consumed when they lived in this world.
Because it is believed that these days those who died come to visit their loved ones, with the exception of those who have not yet died for a year because they stay to take care of the home of those who come to Earth.
It is a way to share food with friends, family, acquaintances and strangers, because these days everything is offered in good will, just by visiting the people of the town we can enjoy a considerable amount of fruits and traditional dishes.
When the flowers fall from the fruit trees
The best known fruit trees in Jicayán are: orange, nanche, papaya, mamey, butcher, coconut palm, tamarind, lime, mango, among others.
For this reason, it is not uncommon to find any of the trees mentioned on the town grounds.
Our diet has depended largely on fruit, so in the town with these trees special care is taken.
Of course, sometimes some trees do not bear fruit, because before they form, the flowers fall; As a remedy to this, the elderly recommend that they hang old jugs, old pots and pieces of red cloth tied to the branches, so that the tree is ashamed and begins to produce; for some reason they end up bearing fruit.
I will buy fertilizer to kick my cornfield.
I no longer have a grandfather.
He who sells fresh water is very abusive, because he gives it very expensive.
Go fetch water.
New edible oil has arrived.
You have to accept it, since they give it to us.
A man plays the accordion.
The day you get married they will give you a marriage certificate.
I am going to decorate my house because I am going to have a party.
Give me an avocado to eat.
A downpour fell last night.
I have two coils of wire.
I'm going to drop my daughter off at the hostel.
Pass me the alcohol because I hurt my hand.
No longer going food for pigs.
I have many friends.
I am going to burn fire with my stove.
A wanderer boy.
I lost my wife's ring.
I have twenty antenna strokes.
The damper in my house has already broken.
I take my plow to fallow.
I want some sand.
I'm going to buy a coffin.
I go with authority.
I'm leaving on the plane.
Today we are going to pass the most urgent notices.
The ayate has already been filled with the cob.
The roof of my house fell.
Go bring the sugar to make fresh water to drink.
I'm going to dance and come back.
Tomorrow I will make a bench to sit down.
I am going to buy fertilizer at the Rural Bank of Tlapa.
We will see the flag at school.
I'm going to sit on this bench.
Here is the bathroom where we bathe.
I'm going to learn to play deck.
The boat that walks in the water is very beautiful.
How beautiful is your jig.
His scale does not work, so the authorities no longer want him to sell.
The battery in the car was discharged.
Give me the bib because I need it.
I go to the library to study for a while.
I get on the bike and we are leaving right now.
They paid him with pure bills now.
I'm going to buy bimbo to eat.
I'm going to buy a blouse for my skirt.
The winery is already very old.
Go buy a ticket for the nine o'clock car.
Go and tell Dona Petra to give you four bobbins.
I take this bag.
I'm going to kill fleas with this bomb.
Pass me the eraser.
I will take care of our sheep.
I had some snacks to eat today.
I'm going to bring that boat.
I'm going to bring that bottle so you can go buy a soda.
Give me a button to put it on my clothes.
Juana's bra is black.
Luis's glitter is red.
I want a brush to paint the door of my house.
Do not make fun of him because if you do not already bother.
I'm going to ride this horse.
I am going to buy light cable to install my house.
I really like to eat peanuts.
With this chain I am going to tie the dog.
I'm going to put coffee to drink.
I'm going to buy a cardboard box.
I bought two socks.
I will see in the calendar what month we are in.
I messed up my house with calidra.
I want a brief to wear.
I'm going on this street.
Shrimp is expensive to eat.
Go get my shirt to put it on.
I'm going to ring the bell in church.
Go leave a deceased to the churchyard.
I'm going to see if the water passes over there in the canal.
I'm going to buy a basket.
We are going to play on the court.
I'm going to buy a padlock to close my door.
The crab that came out of the water is very beautiful.
Give me the pitcher to go fetch water to drink.
There are many drunks in the canteen.
I am going to keep my papers in this folder because if they are not going to get stained.
The highway has already entered our town.
I don't have a wheelbarrow.
When I go to Tlapa, I will take the car.
Here is a letter that came to you.
The postman is coming for the house.
The cilium cardboard I bought was very expensive.
I'm going to buy a cardboard.
I have a small house.
Castle is going to burn in my town because it is a party.
I'm going to buy a new casserole.
I'm going to eat pozole and I'm going to add onion.
My brush is new.
The wax with which I am going to make candles is over.
They stole my match.
They already gave me my certificate.
Beer is very expensive now.
My head hurts when I smoke a cigarette.
I want a chisel.
We go to the cinema to see the film because it is beautiful.
The belt you have in black.
I'm going to buy a nail to nail this stick.
The collector charged me dearly.
I'm going to buy a coconut to eat.
Very nice the rocket rises.
I am going to paint my house with this color.
Mr. Commander is very ill.
I'll wait for you in the dining room to eat.
I'm going to make food to eat.
I'm going to see the commissioner.
Pedro communicates with Pablo.
I'm going to kill that rabbit already there.
My grandfather gave me advice.
The doctor charges a lot for a consultation.
I go to the office.
I will put a call in "The voice of the mountain".
I'm going with the cooperator lord.
Give me that copal because I will occupy it.
I'm going to see for a little while why they are playing the kite.
The corral where the chickens have is very large.
I am going to Tlapa to buy a strap for my huaraches.
Give me the nail clipper to cut my nails.
The bag with which I work has already broken.
In my town we have a very beautiful custom.
I take this belt to tie my oxen.
They already gave me my credential.
I need cream for my face.
Wait for me on the Tlaxco cruise.
My room is very small.
Give me the bucket so I can bring water.
Give me that spoon that's there.
Give me the knife to cut the rope.
I am going to take out my account, how much will I get for the corn that I am going to buy.
Mom, tell me a story.
The string on my guitar broke.
I sell a beef leather.
I'm going to kill that cuiji that goes there.
I have a sister-in-law.
Tomorrow I will give a fee where I study.
I want to chew gum.
I'm going to buy pork rinds to eat.
I will make chilate to eat.
The chirmole that Filomena made is very spicy.
I'm going to buy chocolate for breakfast.
The driver is very good.
I'm going to see the rabbit dance.
I am sick with dengue.
The school children go to the parade.
Today he is a saint of Mr. Miguel.
The flower Beto drew is very beautiful.
I'm going to look up a word in this dictionary.
Tomorrow I am going to ask for dynamite because I am going to need it.
The director was angry with my son because he did not go to study one day.
I go to the disco to buy a record to listen to.
I go to the disco to buy.
This song is sung by a duet.
This building is very large.
All managers are notified.
Let him bring the order.
The nurse injected the people.
I will write on this desk.
I'm going to send my children to school.
I take my sword.
Your uncle's mirror is too big.
We are going to explode a bullet.
I'm going to bring a ball of yarn to knit.
Many students enrolled this year.
I'm going to cook on this stove.
Some foreigners live in Mexico.
I go to the factory to buy.
I'm going to buy a skirt for me to wear.
I go to the fandango and then I come.
I'm going to buy medicine at the pharmacy.
Do me a favor boy.
I'm going to congratulate my niece.
I'm going to make figures with the dough.
I go to school to sign for my daughter.
I'm going to play this flute.
I'm going to buy a light bulb.
My brother's photograph did not go well.
She is very pretty but she failed, now she has a son.
When you go to Tlapa you buy the brake for my horse.
The ash is very high.
I'm going to buy cookies to eat.
The hook with which Odilón cleans is very good.
This jack is no longer useful.
I take this pole so that the oxen will bite.
I'm going to start my gas.
I'm going to buy a cat.
I'm going to see my chickens because if not the hawks are going to eat them.
A very important turn came to me.
With this chalk I am going to paint.
I'm going to Mexico to see the government.
The weevil bites my corn a lot.
I'm going to put the cap on my son.
A lot leaks in my house.
The recorder you have is very large.
I'm going to record people.
Farm chickens are not tasty.
I need gravel for my house.
There are many gringos in Mexico.
I am going to cut guamuchil to eat.
I'm going to cut guavas for us to eat.
I'm going to play a song on this guitar.
The room where I live is very dirty.
Give me the ax to cut this firewood.
The flour to make bread has arrived.
The helicopter that comes there is very beautiful.
I'm going to bring the herbicide.
I'm going to buy ice to cool the soft drinks.
I'm going to climb that tree to cut fig to eat.
The thread with which I am mending my clothes broke.
Tell me a story.
What time are we at.
The hotel they are hardly building is very beautiful.
My huarache is already broken.
I'm going to run to kill iguana to eat.
Those of us who speak Mixtec are indigenous.
My son is studying at a boarding school.
I am going to invite all the peoples to come.
I'm going to give the lady an injection.
That boy plays a jarana.
There is a garden.
She bought many jícaras now that she went to Tlapa.
I want to drink fruit juice.
That boy's toy is a lot.
We call on all residents to focus because the meeting is about to start.
My son is not yet and he is already attending kindergarten.
The sheet you have in your house is already very old.
I go for a pen, then I come back.
Give me that pencil for me to write.
I'm going to put the butter in this can.
The milk is already cooked.
I lost my lens that I occupy.
I was scared by a lion.
I'm going to write some letters on this paper and I'm going to send it to my sister.
Tomorrow I am going to buy a bookcase.
I want a book to study because I already know how to read.
I already have a license to drive the new car I bought.
I'm going to see the lawyer to solve my problems.
I'm going to make sauce for me to eat with this blender.
I'm going to buy ten leagues.
Go get lemons to make fresh water.
Give me the sweet lemon to eat.
Turn on the flashlight that I just bought very well.
I bought my sister's hair ribbon.
This wolf is not brave.
I saw a madman on the street.
I am an announcer of "The voice of the mountain".
Turn on the light because it is very dark.
There is a new tire.
I already found the key to our door.
The new keychain is very beautiful.
My flowerpot is very pretty.
The teacher of my town is sick with diarrhea.
Give the bottle to the baby to suckle.
I'm going to buy a hose so I can get water.
I'm going to buy a blanket for me to wear.
I like to eat apple.
I'm going to tell my aunt to sew my clothes with the machine.
Lend me the typewriter.
How great is the sea.
I'm going to grab this butterfly for that child to play.
The ham I bought is very heavy.
I'm going to put this mask on.
I'm going to take my car to the mechanic.
I go with the doctor to heal myself.
The water meter that I use has broken down.
Here is the market, pass it on.
I'm going to sit down to eat at that table.
I'm going to go to school and I'm going to sit at the table.
I go to Mexico to work.
The microphone is very old.
I worked in the house of a millionaire.
I go to the mine to get wealth.
Tomorrow I will buy minsa for us to eat.
I go to mass to church.
I am sorry to speak Mixtec.
The mole we ate at my house was very tasty.
The mill of my town is new.
Coins are very heavy, so I don't want to load them.
My horse's saddle is very beautiful.
Tomorrow I am going to cut andirons to build my house.
I want to use a motorcycle.
I'm going to climb this wall.
Play a song for us to listen to.
Raúl is swimming in the river.
I go to the market to buy orange.
I really like to carry a razor.
I have a grandson.
I bought walnut to eat.
Today the man leaves for Oaxaca.
I will bring ocote to light.
I got a job.
We have to organize to deal with an issue.
I'm going to the hill to bring otate.
My stepfather is already dead.
Those people come from another country.
I'm going to dig soil with this shovel.
I'm going to buy a popsicle to eat.
I'm going to grab the dove that's already there.
Buy bread for breakfast.
He barely set up a bakery nearby.
The Filomena girl's new panties have already broken.
When I go to Tlapa I will buy a new pants.
I'm going to boil the potatoes to eat.
I'm going to buy a hundred paper.
I bought two packages of minsa.
I paid dearly for the fare.
Ubaldo is an intern in philosophy.
That time we went for a walk to that big hill.
I'm going to kill this duck to eat.
In my house I have a very nice peacock.
We are going to play ball on the court.
I go with the hairdresser to shave.
I'm going to buy pear to eat.
I bought a nice smelling perfume.
Give me permission, I'm going to play mom,
Oil is very expensive.
I'm going to dig with this pick.
I am going to buy paint to paint my house.
I need tweezers to bend this wire.
The pineapple that we are going to eat is very sweet.
Your piñata is very pretty.
I'm going to sleep on the floor.
With a gun they killed a man.
I'm going to write on the board.
My iron is out of order.
I'm going to grab this plastic.
I was very happy to go to the beach in Acapulco.
I'm going to see the police.
I'm going to see the polidor to see if he has other things.
I'm going to buy gunpowder to use.
Give me some ointment.
I'm going to open the gate.
The foot of the post is already rotting.
We are going to eat pozole in my house.
There is a presidency in my town.
I'm going to go over the bridge.
I sell very well in this position.
Give me pulque to drink.
There is cheese for sale in the market.
I'm going to buy radish to eat.
My radio is very old.
I'm going to buy a rake to shave off my beard.
I'm going to kill that mouse that got into that hole.
This lady's shawl is new.
Go buy iron at the repair shop where we went yesterday.
You already bought your new reflector.
A while ago I had a soda.
I'm going to turn on the refrigerator to cool down the water.
The rule I occupy was broken.
The grille on the priest's door is very strong.
The watch you are wearing is new.
I am going to rent where I am going to live.
I'm going to review what they taught me.
I'm going to see on my shelf if my comb is there.
Give me so much resistol.
The rifle Agustino bought is very beautiful.
Inside the wardrobe there are clothes.
Margarita's pencil sharpener is very large.
I'm going to see the priest in the church.
I will send you a greeting.
We are going to bring a watermelon.
Apolonia is very ill with measles.
I'm going to buy a hacksaw to cut this board.
I go with my papers to be sealed.
I go with my pig to where there is an animal called a stallion.
That young lady walks down the street.
The sawmill with which I work was broken.
I'm going to buy a zipper for my clothes.
I'm going to blow the whistle for the kids to come to class.
Give me a chair to sit on.
I'm going to sit in this chair.
That boy is very sincere.
Why are there so many soldiers in our town, mom?
There's a single woman there, I'm going to talk to her.
I'm single.
I'm going to sell my hat.
I will take this umbrella with me so I don't get wet.
Give me the blower.
I don't have a father-in-law.
I am very lucky because I won.
Give me that sweater to wear.
The substitute gentleman is in the municipal police station.
All the partitions fell.
I'm going to eat a taco.
My uncle plays the drum.
The gas tank I have in my house is very small.
I'm going in that taxi right now.
I really like drinking tea.
A technician is coming to vaccinate our cattle tomorrow.
I'm going to buy tile to make my house.
I'm going to buy shingles.
I like to eat tejocote.
I'm going to Tlapa to buy a cloth to wear.
I'm going to talk on the phone.
I got a very urgent telegram.
Television is very beautiful.
Give me that tenate for the tortillas.
Come tomorrow, I'll wait for you at the terminal.
I'm going to measure my terrain.
Luis is the treasurer and has the money.
The girl is very sick with tetanus.
We go to the store to buy sweets.
There is a peasant store in our town.
I'm going to see the tiger in its cage.
I'm going to make a dress for myself and I'm going to cut it with scissors.
A scissors got into my ear.
My tlacopete with which I work has already broken.
I'm going to buy a new towel.
He went to work and was able to buy a record player.
I'm going to squeeze this thyme.
I'm going to cut grapefruit for us to eat.
The church tower is very beautiful.
I'm going to buy a cake to eat.
The turtle walks very slowly.
When I was five years old I got sick with whooping cough.
I am going to see the town of Tototepec.
The fastest fallow farm tractor.
I'm going to put on my suit.
The train is black, and it goes there.
In "The voice of the mountain" a trio plays.
I won a trophy.
My dad's troje is already filled.
The trunk over there has already rotted.
Near my house there is a water pipe.
I'm going to put on my uniform.
I'm going to tie these clothes together.
My nails are already long.
I will use this huarache.
Give me that utensil.
I'm going to buy grapes to eat.
There is a vacancy where a person is requested.
Empty it into the pot.
That girl hesitates me a lot.
I go with my children to vaccinate them.
I'm going to go through this ford.
That man is very brave.
I want a water shutoff valve.
Let the cowboy go take care of my animals.
Give me that rod.
The rod to make my house is over.
I want petroleum jelly for my hair.
My neighbor is a bricklayer.
Shall I play bladder with you?
I'm going to buy a candle.
You buy a candle to take to church.
Go watch it.
Give me that bandage to tie my hand.
That man took poison.
I have a lot of sale.
Open the window to let air in because it is very hot.
I'm going to get air with this fan.
That color is green.
I'm going to buy purslane to eat.
I'm going to eat vegetables.
Give me my dress to wear.
I go on a trip and then I come.
I was bitten by a viper.
He put pure glass on his door.
It runs very wind.
I'm going to play a song on the violin.
The virgin who is in the church is very pretty.
My son is very sick from smallpox.
I'm going to pay my uncle a visit.
My eyesight hurts.
I'm going to take vitamin.
That woman is a widow.
I live in a house.
That bird can no longer fly.
We pass through a town that is near a volcano.
Add volume to the radio.
That boy is vomiting.
I'm going to buy a mare.
I like the yolk of the egg.
All the peppermint I planted was dried.
I have a son-in-law.
The white plaster is very beautiful.
I'm going to buy a yo-yo to play.
My yoke's yoke broke.
My team is no longer able to fallow.
No more grass for my horse.
I'm going to buy carrot.
The grazers pluck the cornfield a lot.
The ditch where the water passes is broken.
I go to the shoe store and return. I'm going to see the shoemaker.
I'm going to put my shoes on so I can run an errand.
I'm going to eat this sapodilla.
Go cut blackberry for you to eat.
I'll wait for you on the plinth in the afternoon.
In Mexico I saw a very large zoo.
The buzzard eats a lot of meat.
The fox eats a lot of chickens.
The skunk stinks very ugly.
That boy works with his left hand.
One day, the little white chicken was digging in the corral, when suddenly he saw a very large and beautiful grain of corn.
"Who wants to plant this corn?"
asked the little white chicken.
'Not me,' said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
`` Me less, '' said the cat.
"Well, yes," said the little white chicken.
And he planted the corn grain with great care.
Then the sprouts came out, and the corn began to grow.
Who wants to water this corn?
Asked the little white chicken.
'Not me,' said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
"And I less," said the cat.
"Well, I'll water it," said the little white chicken.
And she watered it very well watered.
When the ears came out, the little white chicken said
"Who wants to peel the ears and grind the corn?"
Asked the little white chicken.
"Not me," said the goose.
`` Neither do I, '' said the mouse.
`` And less of me, '' said the cat.
`` Well, I will, '' said the little white hen, and she alone shelled them and ground the corn in the mill.
--Who will make the cakes with this flour?
Asked the little white chicken.
"Not me," said the goose.
"Neither do I," said the mouse.
`` And less of me, '' said the cat.
"Then I will make them," said the chicken.
and she made the cakes and baked them.
When taking the delicious cakes out of the oven, the little white chicken asked: - Who wants to eat these delicious cakes?
`` Me, '' said the goose.
"Me too," said the mouse.
`` And so do I, '' said the cat.
"No, gentlemen, that as the rest, I will do alone," said the little white chicken. And she ate them.
They say that a rabbit was walking and reached the foot of a prickly pear cactus.
and also at that time the coyote arrived and found the rabbit.
And the coyote said to the rabbit: "Now I'm going to eat you, because I'm very hungry," said the coyote.
The rabbit said to the coyote: "No, man, don't eat me, because my meat is not tasty, because I'm a small man."
If you want, let's eat these tunas because they are very sweet and tasty, ”said the rabbit to the coyote.
Then the coyote said, "Okay, well, I'll eat if you prepare it."
Then the rabbit removed a prickly pear and prepared it.
And the rabbit said, "Open your mouth and close your eyes, and I put a prickly pear in your mouth," said the rabbit to the coyote.
And the rabbit took a prickly pear that he had already prepared. And put it in the coyote's mouth.
Then the coyote believed, and closed his eyes again and opened his mouth. And the rabbit put another prickly pear on it.
But how could the coyote know that it was not a prickly pear with thorns?
And he swallowed them with the thorns and they went to his belly.
and the thorns remained in his throat, and many thorns were caught in his mouth.
And so he ran and wallowed. And the rabbit withdrew away.
Nicanor came to town riding on his horse Alazán.
On his haunches he carried a fat pig that he sold cheaply at the fair.
Filled with joy, he was going to buy medicine for his sick wife and clothes for his children.
But he found his friend Anastasio who invited him to have a drink.
They entered a canteen where they smoked, drank and played.
They began by taking a mezcal to the health of the patient. And they took many more afterwards until the alcohol intoxicated them.
Without knowing what he was doing, Nicanor went to play dice and the deck.
He lost the money he got for the fat pig. And he lost the Sorrel, who was his companion and friend.
On foot, staggering, without medicine for his wife, without dresses for his children, he returned to his ranch.
Grandfather Wenceslao, who was walking with his grandchildren, found him like this.
"Dear children," he exclaimed, "see what alcohol does."
Flee from drunkenness which is the worst of vices.
Never play a deck of cards the health of a loved one, the bread of the home or the product of their work.
A chick was caught walking, and as he passed under a tree a leaf fell on his tail.
The chick ran to his mom and said:
"Mom, the sky is falling."
-How you know?
The hen asked the chick.
"I know, because a piece fell on my tail," said the chick.
"Let's go tell the turkey then," said the chicken.
Then the two animals left and came to where the turkey was.
"Mr. turkey, the sky is falling," said the chicken.
-As you know?
The turkey asked the chicken
"The chick warned me," said the chicken.
"And you, chick, how do you know?"
The turkey asked the chick.
—I know why a piece fell on my tail
Said the chick.
"Well, let's go warn the heron," said the turkey.
The three animals left and arrived at the heron's house.
-Mr. Heron, the sky is falling, ”said the turkey.
"How do they know?"
The heron asked.
"The chicken told me," the turkey replied.
"And you, hen, how do you know?"
The heron asked him.
"The chick told me," said the chicken.
—And you, chick, how do you know?
The heron asked.
"I know, because a piece fell on my tail," said the chick.
"Let's go tell the fox then," said the heron.
The four animals went to where the fox was.
The heron said:
-Mr. fox, the sky is falling.
-How you know? Asked the fox.
"The turkey told me," said the heron.
"And the chicken said to me," said the turkey.
"And the chick said to me," said the chicken.
"And I know," said the chick, "because a piece fell on my tail."
Then the fox became very happy and said: "Let's go to my cave where I live."
There I will keep them all.
The animals went to the fox's cave.
And one by one the fox ate them, with bones and feathers too. All of this went through the silly chick.
There was a man named Pascual. He had a son who took care of the sheep that he had.
The father warned his son that the times he takes care of the animals do harm.
The boy said to his father: - I do not hurt because I take very good care of the sheep.
It's another boy who does it and you accuse me. Poor little me.
"They tell me that you are the child who does it."
So you better stay and work while I go with the animals to the bush. It is possible that the owner of the cornfield will come and take an animal or bring him to jail, and I do not have the money to get him out of jail, ”he said to his son.
"Okay, I'm tired of taking care of animals," said the boy.
And he stayed and worked.
Then the man went with the animals but could not bear to take care of them.
He was tired and sat down. He didn't know he was sleepy and he closed his eyes and fell asleep.
The animals went to a cornfield and they were hurting when a policeman came and took the animals to jail.
Pascual woke up and went to look for the sheep but he did not find them because they already went to jail.
He then returned home to ask his wife and son if the animals had arrived.
They said to him: —You are a child because you lost the sheep. Go to jail.
Perhaps justice has found them doing damage to the cornfield and they have taken them, ”they told him.
He went very sad to the municipality and asked them if he had found the sheep.
A man said to him, "I found them doing damage to the cornfield."
Don't be afraid, let one of them stay and I'll kill him for the Cinco de Mayo party. You cannot pay the fine for them because the wrong they did was too much.
One of the sheep remained, and the others went with him to his home. He was very embarrassed in front of his wife and son for having lost one of his sheep for being a sleeper.
The jicaritas (song)
Jicarita, jicarita
Of that town where I lived
Colored jicaritas
And smelling of aleli.
I passed for the first time
Through the balcony door
And a jicarita de agua
I asked you as a favor.
There you gave me the poison
The poison of your love
In the painted gourd
Scented like a flower.
Jicarita, jicarita
Of that town where I lived
Colored jicaritas
And smelling of aleli.
Give me back the lost good,
Of the love that I gave you,
In the painted gourd
Scented of alelí.
Story of the big animals
Children have a habit.
They get together when there is a moon and begin to tell stories.
The stories they like the most are the rabbit, because those are the ones told by their parents, the elderly.
Children tell all the stories they know.
This story goes like this:
In a large plain all the large animals gathered: the lion, the tiger, the fox, the turtle - all the large animals
and they said they were going to call the rabbit to tell them where the sun was rising.
But the rabbit did not want to go.
They sent him a waiter but the rabbit did not want to go.
Then they sent him another waiter.
Again the rabbit did not want to go, because the lion and the tiger are the most important and have waiters.
Finally they sent the turtle, which said to the rabbit:
-Uncle rabbit, uncle rabbit!
-What do you want turtle nephew?
Said the rabbit.
-The president says to come for a while.
-What do you want with me?
I'm not going because I don't know why he wants me.
The turtle thought and thought and then said to the rabbit:
-Uncle rabbit, my stomach hurts a lot; push a little here on my stomach with your hand.
The rabbit put his hand up to the turtle's stomach, and stuck it in a lot. It didn't come out anymore.
Then the turtle took him away, pulling him to where the authorities were. Then the rabbit told them where the sun was rising.
He said that the sun came from the mountains and went into the sea.
He also said that the moon came from the west and went where the sun rose.
That was what the rabbit said.
This is how the rabbit started that habit, and until now people can see that it is so.
Tales of Men who like to Hunt
The Rabbit Hunter
I'm going to tell you the story of a man who hunts rabbits.
Wherever we live there is a man who likes to hunt rabbits.
He spends all day looking for rabbits.
When he leaves he goes until he finds one.
He looks at all the bushes to see where they are lying.
When he sees them, he kills them. If he doesn't see it lying down, the rabbit gets up and runs; but it chases it.
Nothing else stops a little and kills it; but if not, it runs away and leaves.
During the day, look for rabbits, squirrels, pigeons or kill even snakes, because it gives you great pleasure to shoot.
When he walks in the day, he looks at all the wheat fields, beans or milpitas where they walk.
If he finds a place where they are doing harm, he goes looking for them at night with his lamp.
He leaves at eight or nine, he goes until ten or eleven and when he is far away he returns.
Kill anything you see nearby, be it rabbit, pintail, raccoon, opossum, armadillo, or even skunk.
The Deer Hunter
They say that what I am going to tell you happened to a man:
He left with a lamp; but maybe he didn't know that the cattle were around.
He saw eyes sparkle and thought it was a deer.
He shot him; but when he went to see him he realized that he was a bull.
I do not know if I would notify the owner of the bull, but the fact is that the owner of the bull knew who had killed his bull and sued the man with the authority.
The man went to jail and had to pay what the bull was worth.
I did not see it, but I heard that they told it so.
That happened to that man because of wanting to eat meat and going to kill a bull.
The Men Who Went to Hunt Deer
I'm going to tell you a story. One year we went hunting deer.
We were six. It was Easter and when we left the town it was four in the afternoon, because in the town there were some companions who went with us.
It was late when we passed by La Cañada and that is why we went down the rock at night. There, another companion was waiting for us, with whom all six completed.
We slept there and when the day dawned we continued on.
The last one to join us was the one who knew where deer had been.
and he was the one who took us. When we arrived, he told us how we were going.
He showed us all the roads where deer passed.
Three older men were carrying weapons and three of us were kids who went to the herd.
We went once, but there was nothing.
We went the second time and then two deer came out, one male and one female.
They passed near where the middle shooter who was cutting them was. He threw him, but he didn't hit him.
Then they climbed to where the other top shooter was. He threw them, but he just hit one, because they were running very hard.
He killed the female and the male left.
When we all get there, we look for each other's trails. When we found him, the one who did know did not say:
- We are going to see behind that hill, because I believe that it must have gone there.
We loaded our deer and left, we arrived at the place he told us and when we went to take him out there was nothing left.
Then we went down the guamil, but it was so thick that we could only go down with a lot of work with our deer.
We go through a ravine. Then we went up and left again for La Cañada.
We were all taking turns loading the deer until we reached the town.
There we clean it, we divide the meat. We valued it and we ate it roasted. It was very tasty. Maybe you would have liked a bit, but when you came it was over.
This was the story of those who went hunting deer.
Tale of a pig and a donkey
One day a pig found a donkey carrying firewood and said:
"Why are you carrying so much firewood when you're so skinny?"
"Because my master needs it," replied the donkey.
-That's why?
But I don't work, and even so, as well; they feed me three times a day.
Look at my neck and my sides; I am pure good meat.
But you are pure bones, ”said the pig to the donkey.
"Ah, I remember," said the donkey.
I just heard my owner talking about killing a pig for food.
That is why they need this firewood, to cook the meat of that pig.
-It's true what you say? Asked the pig.
Because if I'm the one who's going to kill, there is no reason for us to keep talking anymore.
I must be the pig they talk about, because there is no other here.
I will be tasty, because my meat will smell very good when they put me on the table. But, poor you, when you die and they throw you, the buzzards will eat you,
because you are very skinny and your entrails smell very ugly - the pig told the donkey.
"What you say may be true," replied the donkey.
"I have to go now, because the knife has already been sharpened; so,
you and I will not see each other anymore until we are in the other world,
because the buzzards are going to eat you, and the people are going to eat me, ”said the pig to the donkey.
And so this story ends.
Tale of a boy and a lion
I'm going to tell you the story of a boy and his parents.
Once the boy's parents were talking about how lazy their son was.
And they decided that the man would go to the mountain to abandon him there.
The boy realized what they had decided to do. And the man said to him:
—Take your rope and we are going to look for firewood and then we return, because your mother no longer has firewood.
The boy said yes, he took an orange, and they left.
The boy thought, "How about I go and leave and can't find my way back?
I'm going to leave the orange peel where we go so that it finds its way back. "
He dropped bits of the orange peel on the path as they walked, and thought again:
"But if the goats pass, they will eat it, and I will no longer be able to find the way."
Then he grabbed several small stones and took a good look at what they were like.
And he left them on the road, and he and his dad kept walking.
They arrived at the mountain and his father said to him:
"Sit here, I'm going to get the firewood and when I yell or scream, you'll know I'm there."
And I will scream from where I am. The boy replied:
"Okay," and she believed him and sat down. And the lord left.
It was a long time after her dad was gone. As he did not return, the boy thought:
"I'll go find him, but if I can't find him, then what shall I do?"
It was and there was no one in the bush. He screamed a lot while looking for him, but there was no one.
And so he stayed in the bush.
The next day, a lioness passed by and said:
-What are you doing here? The boy replied:
"I'm waiting for my dad, but he's not here because he abandoned me and left."
Then the lioness replied:
"If you want, come with me." You can take care of my children, and I will pay you.
the boy said yes.
They went and arrived at the lioness's house, and the cubs were very happy that the boy had come to take care of them.
so the child raised them.
A day came when the boy said to the lioness:
"I would like to return to my town, but what will I do?"
I will not be able to find my house, since I no longer remember the path that I arrived on.
But I do want to return.
the lioness said to him:
—Take one of my children to accompany you. Because if not, how about you meet someone who hits you?
all the little lions said:
—I, I want to go.
He chose the one he loved the most when he cared for them.
And they set out for their town.
they saw a place with a light, and it was a house of thieves.
They approached and saw that there was a lot of money there.
And the lion said to the boy:
"We are going to kill them, and we will keep the money."
So they came to the thieves' house and the thieves wanted to kill the boy and the lion.
But the lion hid to find out what the thieves wanted to do with the boy so that they would not harm him.
So the lion and the boy killed the thieves.
There were four of them and three died. Only one stayed alive.
The boy said to him:
"Show me where the key is to the place where the money is, and we won't kill you."
The thief replied:
-Here it is. Do not kill me. Let me go, he showed you all the places where the money was.
Then the lion killed him, and then the lion, with his tail, took all the thieves outside and threw them into a ravine.
So they kept all the money.
And they really got very rich.
After this they continued on their way to the boy's house, who later started a business of all kinds of sewing.
When they arrived, they found their mom and dad. They were very sorry that they had abandoned him in the bush.
And they asked him to forgive them.
But he said it was no longer possible because what they did to him hurt him very much.
And even though he had money, he wasn't going to give his parents a bit.
His parents saw that there was a lot of cloth in the boy's house, and that he always sewed.
Then his parents said to him:
—We are your parents; Why don't you forgive us?
We are very sorry for what we did to you. But he said to them:
-Not.
For me, my parents are already dead, and you are not telling me the truth; They are cheating on me. They only ask for forgiveness because I have money.
And he and the lion were very rich.
TALE OF THE CARPENTER AND THE PICHUACA BIRD
I am going to tell you the story of the pichuaca and the woodpecker.
The woodpecker was a musician and used to go to all parties to play.
But he was sorry because his clothes were a very sad color.
So he said one day to the pichuaca:
"Why don't you lend me your suit to wear?"
Because the color of mine is very sad and I feel sorry, because I'm always going to play at parties.
Please ask me to lend it to me to wear tonight. The suit you are wearing is very beautiful.
Then the pichuaca replied:
"No, I won't lend it to you."
This is the only suit I have. Poor me.
But the carpenter insisted saying:
"Lend me, it's just for one night."
"No, I won't give it to you, because I would be ashamed to be naked," said the pichuaca.
"Don't worry about it," said the woodpecker.
"I lend you my suit and you put it on."
It's only for tonight.
"Well, man," said the pichuaca at last.
So he lent his suit to the carpenter and she put on the carpenter's suit, in turn.
Then the pichuaca said:
-!Oh oh!
Your suit is so ugly, and it's also broken.
But the carpenter insisted and said:
"Only tonight I want to wear your suit and I'll return it to you tomorrow."
I'm leaving now, because it's time to go to the dance.
I am in charge.
I touch the box, ”said the woodpecker.
So the carpenter left and the pichuaca stayed there that night.
The next day the pichuaca was waiting for the woodpecker to return.
He waited a long time, but the carpenter did not appear.
Then the pichuaca started crying loudly, because she was hungry and could not go looking for her food because the suit she was wearing was torn and she was sorry that they saw her like that.
So he stayed right there and cried all night, because the carpenter never came back with his suit.
This is how the story ends.
The little mouse that eats omelette
Once upon a time there was a lady who kept the leftover dried tortillas on the table every night;
but the little mouse ate the dry tortillas. When the new day dawned, the lady found these tortillas well mocha and said:
Poor little devil devil, you ate my tortillas! Okay, now you are going to see, little mouse; after a while at night I will keep them higher.
Then, when it was night, he kept them all the way up, but it turned out that the next day he found the tortillas well cooked. The lady said again:
Oh, little mouse! You ate my tortillas again, how can you not get sick?
Suddenly, the lady began to remove the edges of the tortillas where the little mouse had eaten; but the little mouse was sitting on top of a corner of the house, he saw that the lady was removing the edges of the omelette and very amazed he said: But the lady is really disgusted where I was eating!
How where did my little eggs go?
Tale of the Deer and the Turtle
One day the turtle found the deer and said:
"Friend, you are very fast,
But I would like us to have a competition to see if I can reach you.
The deer replied:
"And you, when would you reach me?"
But if you want to compete with me, that's fine.
—We will meet tomorrow where the ceiba is
Said the turtle.
So the turtle went to look for all the other turtles there were, he gathered them and said:
—Tomorrow I am going to compete in a race with the deer and they will see how we will win. I say we will win, because you will help me.
You will be all the way, a little withdrawn from each other, until you reach the goal. When they see the deer approaching, they will hit the road and scream; "I'm already here!"
So will each one of you.
The next day the turtle and the deer met on the ceiba tree, and the deer said:
"What, are you ready?"
"I'm ready," said the turtle.
And the race began. But the turtle that began to run with the deer no longer ran, but stayed, and another was the one that followed; and so they obeyed the instructions given by the turtle that was going to compete with the deer.
One by one the turtles came out onto the road when they saw the deer approach. And they shouted at him: "I'm here!" When it was not long before the deer reached a stream, a turtle shouted: "I'm here!"
Then the deer became very sad, but he kept running and said, "I'm going to run faster to see if I can catch the turtle." Little had he run when another turtle came out saying, "I'm here!"
But the deer kept running a little more, only later another turtle came out telling him; -I'm already here!
The deer ran out of strength, and he could not take another step and fell. The turtle that had come out, approached where the deer had fallen and said:
"Now yes, friend, I beat you!"
Tale of the Vulture
It is said that a long time ago the vulture was a white dove.
Only back then there was a flood that lasted forty days and forty nights.
During the flood almost all the animals on earth died. Many people also died, and the trees that could not stand rotted with the water.
When the flood ended, the animals that had been saved were in the high part of the mountains, and it was they who said to the dove:
"You who can fly, see if there are still living animals in some part of the world."
The pigeon flew off to fulfill what they had ordered, but when he got to a part he saw that there were enough dead animals.
He stood on one of these animals and started pecking at it, and all the bad smell of the dead animal was smeared on his feathers.
Then he pecked at the belly of another animal and all the stinky water smeared on his feathers.
It stunk a lot, but the pigeon kept eating.
When she finally returned to where the other live animals were, these poor people did not recognize her and fled, because the pigeon stunk enough.
It was no longer white, it had turned black, because by eating dead animals it had lost its white feathers.
Since then it has that bad smell and lives apart from other animals.
He eats dead animals and does not care what disease they died of;
and it doesn't get together with good animals.
If you see a buzzard now, you will notice that its feather is black, in addition to having a very bad smell.
Tale of the fox who pretended to be dead
This happened to a fox:
entered a corral
where there were some chickens,
and there it was when it dawned,
and he could not leave without being seen.
When he saw that he couldn't hide,
he thought it would be good to be seen.
He left the corral and publicly threw himself on the road
pretending dead.
People didn't think he was alive,
I thought he was dead.
After a while a man passed
and saw it there.
Then she remembered what people say
which is very good the hair on the forehead of a fox
to put on the children's faces
so they don't get sick of something on their faces.
So he cut it and took it away. Then another happened
who cut off his mustaches and took them away.
Then another happened
who cut his nails to go.
Then another passed by who said:
"Teeth are very good for a sore mouth," he said.
Then he took them off and took them away.
They saw all its parts and took them off;
but he did not move at all;
there he was lying.
Then another passed by who spoke of removing his heart.
When he understood that they were going to take his heart out,
then he began to think:
"We better run.
That we no longer become the deceased,
so they don't rip our hearts out and we die, "he thought.
Then he ran; He did not allow his heart to be removed.
This story means that:
When people take advantage of us
and we are allowing them to,
If we know that we are not going to take it anymore,
then it is better to run from them
and not allow them to abuse us further.
The Rabbit and the Wax Doll
Here we are going to tell one of the tales of the rabbit and the coyote.
There was a granny who planted beans.
But every morning a bunny ate his seedlings.
Then the grandmother went with a wise old man to advise her, and asked:
-What I am going to do?
A bunny is eating my cornfield.
And he replied:
"Go buy some wax; and with that wax, make a doll and put it there in the cornfield.
She bought the wax and did just as the old wise man had told her.
The next day, the bunny arrived at the cornfield.
-What are you looking for here? The bunny said to the doll.
Get out of my way, because you scare me, ”said the bunny to the doll.
Then the bunny kicked him and the doll fell, and it fell apart.
Well, the grandmother went again with the wise old man and said:
"The wax doll didn't work."
The bunny tore him to pieces.
"What wax did you buy?"
The man said to him.
"I bought white wax."
"That's not the one I should have bought."
He must have bought yellow wax.
So granny went to buy wax again, but now she bought yellow beeswax.
Then he made a doll again and put it in the cornfield.
When the bunny returned, he said to the doll:
-What are you doing here?
Step aside, because you scare me.
The bunny kicked the doll, but now its leg was stuck.
"Let go of my leg!"
Let go of my leg!
I still have my other leg and I'm going to kick you.
The bunny kicked it with its other paw, and it stuck to it, too.
"Let go or I'll hit you," he said, "I still have my hands."
Then he hit the doll with his hand, and his hand hit him.
He hit it with the other hand, and all four legs stuck to it.
Then he hit him with his mouth, and his mouth stuck to him; then with the ears and the tail, and everything stuck together.
The next day when the morning dawned, Grandma came to take care of her beans.
A WAY TO TAKE CARE IN CASE OF ILLNESS
I will tell you about a disease that attacks people.
There are many kinds of diseases.
Some are tremendous, and it is not possible to recover soon from them when they catch you.
There are times when the disease is on the skin, and other times it is in the stomach.
With some people the disease is on the skin;
but with other people it is inside the body.
We may start coughing,
that we have diarrhea, all this due to the same disease.
We may also vomit blood from the disease.
This is a tremendous disease.
It is called tuberculosis; but we call it "cuehe ityi", or disease that leaves dry.
After some time you can die of that disease.
Whether inside the body or on the skin, it is the same disease, and it can stay on our skin or enter our body.
This was the way I got sick of the skin. I was sick for a long time.
The Center had to cure me for a long time with medicines before I was relieved.
At the beginning of the disease, skin ulcers developed and became infected.
However, I was not healing well, I just used a little medicine, and that was not the correct medicine for my illness.
I got really sick and that's when the Center started to heal me.
But they had to give me injections for a long time before it healed.
He had been in bed for three months before going to the Center.
I was cured there for six months and it was until then that I was cured. I was in bed for six months due to this illness.
I am telling you all this so that you know how terrible this disease is. They gave me over a hundred injections before I healed.
It is a tremendous disease.
However, those who take medicine as it should be can heal. But if you don't make an effort to take the medicine, you won't be able to heal.
It really is a tremendous disease, because over time you can die from it.
This is the reason why I tell you this, so that you take good care of yourselves, you who are already adults; and so that they take care of their children if they become ill with this disease.
If you get ulcers or have a cough, it is best to go to the Center and tell them what symptoms you have, and the doctor will tell you which medicine is good for you, or for your children.
I also want to tell you to make the effort to eat well and thus you will be in good health.
Because, even if they are being cured with injections, it will not hurt to eat chili, eggs, meat, cheese, milk, and beans.
It is also good to take a medicine called Protea.
It is taken as chocolate. This dust gives us strength.
Ask at the Center where they can get it.
They should also be encouraged to eat cabbage, and should plant radish.
We must eat the vegetables that mestizos eat, because those vegetables make us strong.
So if you plant them, you don't have to spend money to buy them.
They can be sown in a pot, or in a high place where animals cannot reach them. Remember to water them.
This is what I am talking about, because you must eat what gives you strength all the time, not only when you are sick.
A POOR MAN WHO DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO FISH
One day he and I went fishing, but the water where we were going to fish was full of herbs.
So I told him:
Can you put up with the itching that these herbs produce?
And he replied: Yes, I can hold on.
He said that, because he thought the itch wouldn't be too bothersome.
So we went to put on old clothes to get into the water.
When we got into the water, I went ahead, pushing the herbs where I was going.
He followed behind me.
So I started to prepare a place to hang the net.
I placed the forks and hung the net on them.
Then I said to him: Go from that side and I will go through this other. Okay, ”he said.
We went to the place where we were going to enter the water again.
It was a bit far and when we got there, he started scratching.
So we got into the water and I said to him:
Are you itchy
Yes, I have a lot! -He said.
So I told him:
You should not continue if you cannot bear the itch.
No, come on, ”he said. I can hold on very well. I really want to eat fish broth. Well, ”I said.
And we continued stirring the water, where we were going.
I was very happy, because I was used to this.
But instead he was just stirring the water with one hand, while scratching with the other.
So we got to where the network was and he said to me:
I'm going out now. Poor me.
I can't stand the itch anymore.
If you want to give me fish, that's fine.
But if you don't want to give me, that's fine too. I'm going to leave before I go crazy with this itch.
So I told him:
Do not worry.
There will be fish for you to make broth.
Okay, he said, as you say.
He got out of the water and went to a flat place where donkeys wallow.
There was nothing but hot earth and he lay there.
It began to roll in the dirt, until it was completely white with dirt. I recognized it with work.
Then he said to me:
I will never return to this lake.
That's what he told me and kept scratching.
Then he went on to say:
I have almost no fingernails from scratching.
And this is the story of what happened to us.
A WAY TO TAKE CARE IN CASE OF ILLNESS
I will tell you about a disease that attacks people.
There are many kinds of diseases.
Some are tremendous, and it is not possible to recover soon from them when they catch you.
There are times when the disease is on the skin, and other times it is in the stomach.
With some people the disease is on the skin;
but with other people it is inside the body.
We may start coughing,
that we have diarrhea, all this due to the same disease.
We may also vomit blood from the disease.
This is a tremendous disease.
It is called tuberculosis; but we call it "cuehe ityi", or disease that leaves dry.
After some time you can die of that disease.
Whether inside the body or on the skin, it is the same disease, and it can stay on our skin or enter our body.
This was the way I got sick of the skin. I was sick for a long time.
The Center had to cure me for a long time with medicines before I was relieved.
At the beginning of the disease, skin ulcers developed and became infected.
However, I was not healing well, I just used a little medicine, and that was not the correct medicine for my illness.
I got really sick and that's when the Center started to heal me.
But they had to give me injections for a long time before it healed.
He had been in bed for three months before going to the Center.
I was cured there for six months and it was until then that I was cured. I was in bed for six months due to this illness.
I am telling you all this so that you know how terrible this disease is. They gave me over a hundred injections before I healed.
It is a tremendous disease.
However, those who take medicine as it should be can heal. But if you don't make an effort to take the medicine, you won't be able to heal.
It really is a tremendous disease, because over time you can die from it.
This is the reason why I tell you this, so that you take good care of yourselves, you who are already adults; and so that they take care of their children if they become ill with this disease.
If you get ulcers or have a cough, it is best to go to the Center and tell them what symptoms you have, and the doctor will tell you which medicine is good for you, or for your children.
I also want to tell you to make the effort to eat well and thus you will be in good health.
Because, even if they are being cured with injections, it will not hurt to eat chili, eggs, meat, cheese, milk, and beans.
It is also good to take a medicine called Protea.
It is taken as chocolate. This dust gives us strength.
Ask at the Center where they can get it.
They should also be encouraged to eat cabbage, and should plant radish.
We must eat the vegetables that mestizos eat, because those vegetables make us strong.
So if you plant them, you don't have to spend money to buy them.
They can be sown in a pot, or in a high place where animals cannot reach them. Remember to water them.
This is what I am talking about, because you must eat what gives you strength all the time, not only when you are sick.
A POOR MAN WHO DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO FISH
One day he and I went fishing, but the water where we were going to fish was full of herbs.
So I told him:
Can you put up with the itching that these herbs produce?
And he replied: Yes, I can hold on.
He said that, because he thought the itch wouldn't be too bothersome.
So we went to put on old clothes to get into the water.
When we got into the water, I went ahead, pushing the herbs where I was going.
He followed behind me.
So I started to prepare a place to hang the net.
I placed the forks and hung the net on them.
Then I said to him: Go from that side and I will go through this other. Okay, ”he said.
We went to the place where we were going to enter the water again.
It was a bit far and when we got there, he started scratching.
So we got into the water and I said to him:
Are you itchy
Yes, I have a lot! -He said.
So I told him:
You should not continue if you cannot bear the itch.
No, come on, ”he said. I can hold on very well. I really want to eat fish broth. Well, ”I said.
And we continued stirring the water, where we were going.
I was very happy, because I was used to this.
But instead he was just stirring the water with one hand, while scratching with the other.
So we got to where the network was and he said to me:
I'm going out now. Poor me.
I can't stand the itch anymore.
If you want to give me fish, that's fine.
But if you don't want to give me, that's fine too. I'm going to leave before I go crazy with this itch.
So I told him:
Do not worry.
There will be fish for you to make broth.
Okay, he said, as you say.
He got out of the water and went to a flat place where donkeys wallow.
There was nothing but hot earth and he lay there.
It began to roll in the dirt, until it was completely white with dirt. I recognized it with work.
Then he said to me:
I will never return to this lake.
That's what he told me and kept scratching.
Then he went on to say:
I have almost no fingernails from scratching.
And this is the story of what happened to us.
He is a man
He writes
He digs a hole
He cuts the maguey
The horns of the ox.
She sows seeds.
He cannot see because he is blind.
She goes to the plaza.
You are going to buy eggs.
to buy
He buys bananas.
He eats a banana.
He has a role,
He has firewood,
He writes,
He wipes his forehead with his handkerchief
The fly has wings, but the louse does not and you
neither.
his sister left
many of them left
The banana does not have ears, but it has a peel.
She's sick.
Her sister is not sick.
It's okay.
You are pretty, but not me!
What is she doing?
The water is boiling.
What did she do with the water yesterday?
Boiled it.
We will drink boiled water.
do
doing
did
boil
boiling
boiled
The rabbit ran and jumped a lot.
He is tired now.
Wants to sleep.
Is sleeping.
The rabbit slept, and now it is jumping again.
sleep
sleeping
slept
jump
jumping
jump
This man is called Lalo.
He went to the market.
He bought bananas.
He bought tomatoes and onions.
I buy bread.
He searched for beef, but couldn't find it.
He bought some goat meat.
He bought everything he needed to eat.
She also bought paper to write a letter to her son.
He finished his shopping.
He has returned to his village.
purchase
I buy
to buy
Her name is Juana.
He is looking for his children.
He is calling the children.
He called them and called them, but they did not come.
Why?
They were playing and they didn't hear her,
to call
calling
I call
The boy is going to study.
The boy studies.
The boy studied.
Let's study!
He will obey.
He obeys.
He obeyed.
Let's obey!
The animal will enter.
The animal enters.
The animal entered.
Let's go in!
I'm going to talk.
I speak.
I talked.
Let's talk!
Will you eat, or will you eat?
You.
is eating.
You ate.
Let's eat!
The boy is going to get wet.
The boy is getting wet.
The boy got wet.
Let's get wet.
He is going to ride the animal.
He is riding the animal.
He got on the animal.
Let's get on the animal!
I'm tired. The bear is a very large animal.
It has thick legs and a short tail.
Its claws are long and sharp, with them the bear digs the ground.
The bear's fur is woolly and black or brown.
At the north pole, where it is very cold, there are also white-skinned bears when they are young and then yellowish.
Bears like to sleep during the winter.
They look for a hollowed-out tree or a cave, in which they get into and go to sleep.
They sleep all winter.
Their young are born in the winter.
They have one or two young.
When they are born, they are as small as a kitten, and nurse from the mother.
When spring arrives, the bears, which are already two or three months old, wake up and leave the tree or the cave.
They walk through the forest.
The mother bear shows them what to eat and teaches them where to find food.
Bears eat honey, ants, fruit, roots, grass, and mice.
With their claws they catch fish.
The mother bear also teaches the bears how to climb trees.
They are very playful animals.
They play with the mother and with the other bears.
Benito Juárez Benito Juárez was born to Zapotec parents in San Pablo de Guelatao in the State of Oaxaca on March 21, 1806.
At the age of three he was orphaned in the care of his paternal grandparents and brothers.
He spent his childhood as a shepherd, but when he was 12 years old he went to Oaxaca, where he began to study.
He learned to speak Spanish well.
In 1834 he received the title of licentiate.
Later he was Governor of the State of Oaxaca.
When Santa Anna was a dictator, Juárez had to leave the country.
Later he returned to fight for the Reformation.
In 1858 Zuloaga revolted against the Reformation and Comonfort left him the presidency of the Republic.
Juárez had to flee to Guanajuato with his ministers.
There he was in great danger when soldiers came to kill him.
The soldiers stopped in front of Don Benito Juárez and pointed their rifles at him.
Then, Don Guillermo Prieto covered him with his own body and shouted:
-Raise those weapons!
The brave do not murder!
One by one the soldiers lowered their rifles.
This is how Prieto saved Juárez's life.
The leaders of the Conservative Army were Miguel Miramón, Leonardo Márquez and Tomás Mejía.
Everywhere in the country there was poverty and war.
Miramón was proclaimed president by the conservatives.
He received a loan of 15 million pesos from a bank in France.
No matter how hard he fought, he could not beat the liberals.
On January 1, 1861, the Constitutional Army entered the capital under the command of General Jesús González Ortega, and fifteen days later Juárez established his government.
Juárez fought alongside the Imperialist Army and his soldiers killed Maximiliano and his generals Miramón and Mejía in 1867.
On August 14, 1867 there were new elections in which Juárez was elected president.
In 1871 there was another election and Juárez was reelected president.
Juárez gave the people of Mexico many just laws called the Laws of the Reformation.
He said that we are free to choose the religion we want.
He also said that it is very important for all children to attend school and study.
He said that magazine, book, and newspaper writers should be free to write what they think.
There are many other good things that he left us, laws of freedom and justice.
On July 18, 1872 Benito Juárez died.
A woman went to Mexico City with her parents. His uncle stayed in his town to take care of the house. The woman spent five years in the city, but never attended school and could not read or write.
To earn money she worked as a maid in a house. He bought clothes and many things and his situation improved. After five years, he returned to his town.
Two or three months after he returned home, he received a letter from his father. Neither she nor her uncle could read. She wanted to know what the letter said. She wanted to find someone to read the letter to her to find out if something was wrong with her parents or what the letter said.
The woman thought: -What shall we do? How can we know what the letter says? He tried to open the letter but did not. What will he say? I thought.
"Let's see if we can find someone who can read the letter to us," he said to his uncle. He went out into the street. In the distance he saw an old man walking with a cane. He ran fast and caught up with him. He begged her to read the letter to him.
He agreed to read the letter and said:
- I'll read it immediately to see what it says. The man looked at the envelope and then opened it.
He stared at the letter. He looked at her over and over.
Then he began to shout: - Boo, hoo, hoo. The woman asked him:
-What does the letter say? What happens to my parents? Is my father sick? Or is my mother sick? Or my brother? What does the letter say?
- No, it's something more important, said the man.
-What happens then? Have they died? What is it? She said.
- No, it's something worse, he replied.
- What is worse? She asked.
- It is nothing, only that neither you nor I can read. So we can't know what the letter says, the man said.
It is very hot in the desert. It is very dry and it never rains. There is only sand and dry bushes. There is very little water. In places where there is water, palm trees grow.
So how do people travel in the desert? What animal carries the load? The donkey cannot live in such a hot and dry place. But God has created a very special animal called the camel. This animal can live in the hot desert and carry heavy loads.
Rich men who travel in the desert have up to 1,000 camels. Some camels carry up to 350 kilos of cargo. Camels can go three or four days without drinking or eating.
Why does this animal last up to four days without drinking water? Because it has a bag inside that looks like a honeycomb. When you drink water, it is stored in that bag, and your body slowly absorbs it. So you can go four days without feeling thirsty.
Plus, she has two humps on her back where she stores fat, so she doesn't have to eat every day.
Sometimes there are sand storms in the desert. The sand flies everywhere. The camel's eyes are not like the eyes of other animals. He has two eyelids in each eye. One of these eyelids is very thin and the camel can see through it as if its eye was open; just as we can see through the glass. You can also close your noses so the sand doesn't get in. Thanks to this, the sand does not get into your eyes or noses.
The camel is stubborn and bad; but it is the best beast of burden for the desert. The camel can also be ridden and used for plowing.
Camels run very fast. Some can run 165 kilometers in one day.
From camel hair, people make ropes, clothes, and shawls. With their skin they make huaraches and straps; they eat its meat and drink its milk. God has made
a very special animal that can survive in the desert.
A coyote, a fox and a mayate got together to make their cornfields together.
- Let's make our cornfields together. We will make your cornfield first. We will work on it a full day. Then we will work a full day in mine, the coyote said to the fox.
-Well, if so, I agree, replied the fox. The coyote said the same to the Maya and the Maya also accepted.
The next day they met and made the fox field. They worked hard until it was time to eat.
- Oh, now I am going to look for something to eat because we are already hungry, said the fox to the coyote.
- Go on, said the coyote.
The coyote and the mayate continued working on the fox field. The fox ran away. He found a chicken and ate it. Then he picked up a larger one and carried it to the coyote. The coyote ate and was satisfied. The mayate did not eat meat because he only eats leaves. Eat the leaves of the oaks. Only the coyote and the fox ate meat. In the late afternoon they returned to their homes.
- See you tomorrow, they said and left.
The next day they got back together to work on the coyote cornfield.
- It would be better if we worked in my cornfield, said the Mayate to the fox.
- It's okay. We will work on your cornfield, said the fox and the coyote.
So first they worked in the cornfield of the mayate. Soon it was time to eat.
- I am going to get something to eat because it is late and we are hungry, said the Maya.
-Go, the coyote said to the mayate.
The coyote and the fox started laughing because the mayate is very small.
- Today we are not going to eat because the mayate is very small, you will not find anything, what can you do to get what to eat? He won't find anything, said the coyote.
But the mayate ran away and came to where a large deer was lying, near a deep ravine. With a leap the mayate got into the ear of the deer and buzzed and buzzed until it attacked the deer. He ran, fell to the bottom of the ravine, and died. Then the Maya returned to where the coyote and the fox were working.
- Excuse me, but we have to go eat. They know that I am very small and I cannot bear their food. I already got it but I can't load it. That is why we are going for them to eat, said the Mayate.
-What will we do? I got a lot of meat for his food, said the mayate.
-Well come on, said the coyote and the fox.
They went down the road. The mayate, as he already knew the way, was ahead. It was well remembered where the deer was lying. When they arrived, the coyote and the fox ate meat until they were full. Then they went back to work. As evening fell they said,
- Let's go because it's too late. We will return to work tomorrow, they said. They left. The coyote and the fox went home, but the mayate stayed in a tree. They all slept. The next day they met again early. They made the cornfield of the coyote. In the afternoon they were very hungry.
-Oh, now I'm going to look for something to eat because we're already hungry, said the coyote, and ran away.
He came to a place where there were many goats. The pastor was there taking good care of his goats. He walked from there to here taking care of the goats and would not let them go away. The coyote was spying and spying, but found no way to grab a goat. He got nothing to eat, absolutely nothing. He was so hungry that he felt very sick to his stomach. As it was late he returned to where the others were working.
- You have to forgive me because I didn't get anything to eat. The shepherd took good care of his goats. He was walking with his dog. I couldn't do anything to get something. I couldn't get anything to eat. Excuse me because I couldn't find anything to eat, said the coyote to the fox and the mayate.
-Aa, there is no remedy, go to your house because it is late, the Mayate and the fox told him.
The fox set out and walked there and around looking for something to eat.
The mayate was not worried because there were many oaks and he eats the leaves of those trees. The coyote was also very hungry and at night he went out again in search of something to eat, but found nothing again.
How to Grind the Cane to Make the Panela
I want to tell you how panela is made here in San Juan.
First we cut the cane and take it to the house.
There we put it on the floor of the mill, and then we tie the heads of the bulls so they can start grinding the cane.
When the juice begins to come out of the cane, we put it in a tub.
So we make a fire and boil it for five hours.
Then, when it is already roasted, we take it out.
That molasses hardens. We put it in a saucepan and stir it so that it turns into brown sugar.
We put that molasses in the molds and leave it to become panela.
The panela is used to sweeten the coffee we drink, for the atole or for anything we want to put it on, such as sweets, pumpkin, or anything else we want.
This is the work we do here.
Let's be forewarned
There is a disease that is very dangerous. It's called tuberculosis
but in Mixtec we say "disease of weakness" or "cough that does not go away."
Many people suffer from this dangerous disease although they do not know what it is called.
We say it is a dangerous disease because it kills us
He doesn't leave us until we die.
It does not heal by itself.
Throughout this region there are people suffering from this disease.
There are distant towns where there is not much tuberculosis, but it is because of the cold it is there.
But around here, there is a lot of that disease although we don't realize it, because, when we started,
it shows no signs of being a dangerous disease.
Therefore, it is better that we be very careful and that we be forewarned so that it does not attack us.
Both children and adults are in danger of catching it.
So let's pay attention to what this brochure says
so that we know what the disease is like and how to heal ourselves.
What makes us sick?
What makes us sick is a kind of microbe.
Microbes are very small animals, so small that they cannot be seen with the eyes.
but only with an apparatus called a microscope.
The place where they like to stay and do harm is the chest, because there are the bags where the air we breathe enters and leaves.
. So sometimes, when suffering from tuberculosis, our chest hurts, because there the microbes are eating and doing harm.
They are also found in the saliva we spit out after coughing. When we cough, they also come out in the steam of the cough, and thus the disease is spread.
People in the house where the sick person is can also get sick, because this is how the disease passes from the sick to the healthy.
or bad is that at first it is not clear that one is sick.
So we don't notice that little by little we are going from bad to worse.
How is the disease recognized?
How can you know that you are suffering from tuberculosis?
In this way: it has its signs.
First. it is noted that the patient coughs, and sputum and throat from his throat
What he spits is white, but when the disease is stronger, you can also see mixed blood.
Sometimes we cough, but within a week or two or three it will go away.
This is probably not tuberculosis, but an ordinary cough.
But if we cough for several months and it doesn't go away, it could be tuberculosis,
because that is his sign. But there are more signs.
We feel a fever, although not much.
The time when it gives us more fever is in the afternoon.
At night, sometimes we sweat, we feel sweat from the waist up.
Also, if we work hard, we get tired soon; we have no strength.
And we don't want to eat much, we don't have an appetite.
So little by little we lose weight
That is why it is called in Mixtec "disease of weakness."
If we are very skinny and weak and we spit blood
the disease is known to worsen; It started a long time ago with us and is already progressing.
And if a ball comes out in the jaw or neck, and matures like a boil, then we know that the case is even more serious.
The patient also sometimes gets diarrhea that does not want to stop even if he takes a lot of medicine.
He also wants medicine for the tuberculosis that causes it.
If there are signs of tuberculosis, what will we do?
If there are signs of the disease and we are thinking a lot and we do not know if it is really tuberculosis,
then it is better that we go to the Health Center in Acatlán.
There they will take an x-ray by means of X-rays
The x-ray is a portrait of what is inside the chest, and it is taken out with a device from the Health Center.
But nothing happens to us when the portrait is taken like this.
You don't feel anything. It is like when we are portrayed with an ordinary camera, it does not hurt. We stop at the device, and that's it.
So if we want to know for sure if it is tuberculosis or, no, we go to the Health Center,
We pay what an x-ray is worth, and they take it out.
It is not expensive.
And if there are also children and we want to know about them, you can too.
It is called the Mantoux test.
This test is done for children twelve and under.
Nothing happens to them and we are going to know something about the health of children.
How is one cured?
Before, there was no medicine that effectively cured this disease, and that's why people died.
But now there are medicines that can end the disease in our body
So there is hope.
We need to know if it really is tuberculosis, and if we recognize it
then we will take the necessary pills, receive the indicated injections, and eat good foods with vitamins.
When starting to heal, we must remember that the best thing in healing is to take the pills daily without fail.
The doctor can tell us how many pills we should take each day, and in what way.
The pills are taken at mealtime, and if you like, with a little water.
He doesn't want a diet. You can eat some spicy, but you should not miss good food.
Beans, pumpkins, meat, eggs, milk, bananas, oranges, guavas, avocados, black sapotes are all good foods for the sick.
If we eat pure tortillas with salt, they are not enough to give us strength to fight the disease.
He wants stronger food.
Does the medicine want to diet?
This disease does not require that we keep diet in the way that many do-stop eating good food. Although we take medicine, we can also eat all kinds of good food.
Sometimes, being sick with tuberculosis, we don't feel like eating. We feel weak and tired. The thing is that to heal we need to eat or take what are called vitamins.
They can be purchased from the doctor.
But if there is no money to buy them, we must eat the best and most varied food possible, because the foods also have vitamins, not only the pharmacy.
For example, there are many vitamins and proteins in eggs.
So when we eat well, we receive the benefit of many vitamins and it comes out almost the same as if you bought them.
If the sick person is a woman and is going to have a child,
don't be afraid to heal, because it doesn't hurt. She must also take the pills, inject, and eat well, like the others.
If we suffer from this disease, we should not work hard or keep awake, because if we do, it is easier for the disease to worsen
It is better to rest a lot and sleep well, and this will facilitate the removal of the disease.
Do you want a long time to heal?
Sometimes it doesn't cost that much to heal from this disease.
We take the pills daily for four, or five months, and we inject ourselves on the days indicated by the one who directs our healing.
But there are also cases where it takes up to half a year or a year, or a year and a half before one can heal.
But we should not be discouraged or stop healing. Let's continue with the pills every day.
We have to be patient, because this disease does not heal quickly.
How can we prevent other people from getting it?
We do not want the disease to spread. In itself, tuberculosis is a contagious disease.
We don't want other people in our house or our friends to get sick.
Therefore, the patient should not spit anywhere because the disease is also in the saliva. When saliva or gargajo dries, the wind picks it up. If you get into the mouth or nose of a healthy person, you can also get sick.
When sneezing the patient, or when coughing, it is better to cover the mouth with a tissue or cloth handkerchief, so that the air does not fill with the droplets of saliva that come out when sneezing or coughing.
The frets of the patient should be separated and should not be occupied by the others.
Dishes, spoons, wells, and everything the patient uses to eat are thoroughly cleaned.
After eating, it is best to boil water and put the patient's dishes in the boiling water. This is how the microbes that make us sick die.
The person caring for the patient should wash their hands after caring for them. They are washed with soap, which in this case is better than alcohol.
Why is it better to heal soon?
But if we dilate and do not heal, we become more serious, and then, really, it is difficult to find a remedy;
only with God is the remedy.
Therefore, it is better not to leave the disease, because when it is just beginning, healing is much easier.
But if we dilate a lot and the disease progresses, it is much more difficult to heal, and it takes a long time.
But if you're just getting started, you want less time to relieve yourself.
If you have a healthy person, and you think there is a danger of getting TB, you better get vaccinated.
There is a vaccine that helps people not get sick from tuberculosis.
Paul, apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God: To the saints who are in Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ,
as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we might be holy and blameless before Him. In love
he predestined us for adoption as sons to himself through Jesus Christ, according to the pleasure of his will,
in praise of the glory of his grace which he has freely imparted upon us in the Beloved.
In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins according to the riches of his grace
that has made us abound. In all wisdom and discernment
He revealed to us the mystery of his will, according to the pleasure that was proposed in him,
with a view to a good administration in the fulfillment of the times, that is to say, to gather all things in Christ, both those that are in heaven and those that are on earth. At
we have also obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,
so that we, who were the first to wait on Christ, may be in praise of his glory.
In him also you, after hearing the message of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, and having believed, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise,
which is given to us as a guarantee of our inheritance, with a view to the redemption of God's acquired possession, in praise of his glory.
For this reason I too, having heard of faith in the Lord Jesus among you, and of your love for all the saints,
I do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers;
asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in a better knowledge of Him.
My prayer is that the eyes of your heart will be illuminated, so that you know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
and what is the extraordinary greatness of his power towards us who believe, according to the efficacy of the force of his power,
who worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,
far above all principality, authority, power, dominion and every name that is named, not only in this century but also in the one to come.
And he subdued everything under his feet, and gave him the head above all things to the church,
which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in everything.
And He gave life to you who were dead in your crimes and sins,
in which you once walked according to the current of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now operates in the children of disobedience,
among whom also all of us once lived in the passions of our flesh, satisfying the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just like the others.
But God, who is rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us,
even when we were dead in our crimes, he gave us life together with Christ (by grace you have been saved),
and with him he raised us up, and with him he sat us in heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
in order to be able to show in the coming centuries the superabundant riches of his grace for his goodness to us in Christ Jesus.
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not from yourselves, but from God;
not by works, so that no one can boast.
Because we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.
Remember, then, that once you Gentiles in the flesh, called uncircumcision by the so-called circumcision, made by hands in the flesh,
remember that at that time you were separated from Christ, excluded from the citizenship of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, without hope, and without God in the world.
But now in Christ Jesus, you, who were once far away, have been drawn near by the blood of Christ.
Because He Himself is our peace, who of both peoples made one, breaking down the intermediate wall of separation,
abolishing enmity in his flesh, the law of the commandments expressed in ordinances, to create in himself of the two a new man, thus establishing peace,
and to reconcile the two in one body with God by means of the cross, having killed enmity therein.
AND HE CAME AND ANNOUNCED PEACE TO YOU WHO WERE FAR, AND PEACE TO THOSE WHO WERE NEAR;
for through Him we both have our entrance into the Father in the same Spirit.
So you are no longer strangers or foreigners, but you are fellow citizens of the saints and you are of the family of God,
built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone,
in whom the whole building, well adjusted, grows to be a holy temple in the Lord,
in whom you also are built together for dwelling of God in the Spirit.
For this reason I, Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus for the love of you Gentiles
(if indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God that was given to me for you;
that by revelation the mystery was made known to me, just as I wrote briefly before.
In view of which, reading, you will be able to understand my discernment of the mystery of Christ,
that in other generations it was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to their holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit;
namely, that the Gentiles are joint heirs and members of the same body, participating equally in the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel,
of which I was made a minister, according to the gift of God's grace that has been granted to me according to the efficacy of his power.
To me, who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was granted me: to announce to the Gentiles the inscrutable riches of Christ,
and to bring to light what is the dispensation of the mystery that for centuries has been hidden in God, creator of all things;
so that the infinite wisdom of God may now be made known through the church to the principalities and powers in the heavenly regions,
according to the eternal purpose that was accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord,
in whom we have freedom and access to God with confidence through faith in Him.
Therefore I pray that you will not lose heart because of my tribulations for you, because they are your glory.)
For this reason, then, I bow my knees before the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
from whom every family in heaven and on earth receives its name,
that he grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with power by his Spirit in the inner man;
so that Christ may dwell by faith in your hearts; and that rooted and grounded in love,
you are able to understand with all the saints what is the width, the length, the height and the depth,
and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, so that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God.
And to him who is able to do everything much more abundantly than we ask or understand, according to the power that works in us,
to Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus for all generations, for ever and ever. Amen.
I, therefore, prisoner of the Lord, I beg you to live in a manner worthy of the vocation with which you have been called,
with all humility and meekness, with patience, enduring each other in love,
striving to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
There is only one body and one Spirit, just as you too were called in the same hope of your vocation;
one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
one God and Father of all, who is above all, for all and in all.
But each of us has been granted grace according to the measure of Christ's gift.
Therefore, it says: WHEN HE ASCENDED TO THE HIGH, HE BROUGHT A GUEST OF CAPTIVES, AND GAVE GIFTS TO MEN.
(This expression: He ascended, what does it mean, but that He had also descended to the depths of the earth?
The one who descended is also the same who ascended much higher than all the heavens, in order to fill everything.)
And He gave some to be apostles, to other prophets, to other evangelists, to other pastors and teachers,
in order to train the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edification of the body of Christ;
until we all come to the unity of faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, to the condition of a mature man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ;
so that we are no longer children, shaken by the waves and carried here and there by every wind of doctrine, by the cunning of men, by the deceitful tricks of error;
but speaking the truth in love, let us grow in all aspects in the one who is the head, that is, Christ,
from whom the whole body (being well adjusted and united by the cohesion that the joints provide), according to the proper functioning of each member, produces the growth of the body for its own edification in love.
This I say, therefore, and I affirm together with the Lord: that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk, in the vanity of their mind,
darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance in them, because of the hardness of their hearts;
and they, having become callous, indulged in sensuality to greedily commit all manner of impurities.
But you have not learned Christ this way,
if you really heard him and have been taught in him, according to the truth that is in Jesus,
that as for your previous way of living, you should divest yourself of the old man, who corrupts himself according to deceitful desires,
and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
and you put on the new man, who, in the likeness of God, has been created in the righteousness and holiness of the truth.
Therefore, putting falsehood aside, SPEAK TRUTH EACH ONE WITH YOUR NEIGHBOR, because we are members of each other.
BREATHE, BUT DO NOT SIN; Don't let the sun go down on your anger
Don't give the devil a chance.
He who steals, do not steal more, but rather to work, doing with his hands what is good, so that he has to share with the one in need.
Let not a bad word come out of your mouth, but only one that is good for edification, according to the need of the moment, so that it imparts grace to those who listen.
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
Let all bitterness, anger, wrath, yelling, slander, and all malice be taken from you.
Rather be kind to one another, merciful, forgiving one another, just as God forgave you in Christ.
So be imitators of God as beloved children;
and walk in love, just as Christ loved you and gave himself for us, an offering and sacrifice to God, as a fragrant aroma.
But that immorality, and all impurity or greed, are not even mentioned among you, as befits the saints;
no obscenities, no foolishness, no rudeness, which are not appropriate, but rather thanksgiving.
For surely you know this: that no immoral, impure, or miser, who is an idolater, has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
Therefore do not be partakers with them;
for before you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord; walk like children of light
(because the fruit of light consists of all goodness, justice and truth),
examining what is pleasing to the Lord.
And do not participate in the sterile works of darkness, but rather, unmask them;
because it is shameful even to talk about the things that they do in secret.
But all things become visible when exposed by light, for all that is made visible is light.
For this reason it says: Wake up, you who sleep, and rise from the dead, and Christ will give you light.
Therefore, be careful how you walk; not as foolish, but as wise,
Making good use of time, because the days are bad.
So do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And do not get drunk with wine, in which there is dissolution, but be filled with the Spirit,
speaking among you with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs, singing and praising the Lord with your heart;
always giving thanks for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God the Father;
submitting one another in the fear of Christ.
Women are subject to their own husbands as to the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church, being himself the Savior of the body.
But just as the church is subject to Christ, women must also be subject to their husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it,
to sanctify it, having purified it by washing the water with the word,
in order to present it to himself, a church in all its glory, without stain, wrinkle or the like, but holy and immaculate.
So too should husbands love their wives, as well as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Because nobody ever hated his own body, but he sustains and cares for it, as well as Christ to the church;
because we are members of his body.
THIS IS WHY MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND HIS MOTHER, AND WILL JOIN HIS WOMAN, AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH.
Great is this mystery, but I speak with reference to Christ and the church.
In any case, each of you also love his wife as himself, and that the wife respect her husband.
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER (which is the first commandment with promise),
SO THAT YOU ARE GOOD, AND THAT YOU HAVE A LONG LIFE ON EARTH.
And you, parents, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Servants, obey your masters on earth, with fear and trembling, with the sincerity of your heart, like Christ;
not to be seen, as those who want to please men, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart.
Serve in good will, as the Lord and not men,
knowing that whatever good thing each one does, he will receive from the Lord, whether he is a servant or free.
And you, masters, do the same with them, and leave the threats, knowing that their and your Lord is in heaven, and that for Him there is no respect of persons.
Otherwise, strengthen yourselves in the Lord and in the power of his strength.
Put on the full armor of God so that you can stand firm against the devil's schemes.
Because our fight is not against blood and flesh, but against principalities, against powers, against the powers of this world of darkness, against the spiritual hosts of evil in the heavenly regions.
Therefore, take all the armor of God, so that you can resist in the bad day, and having done everything, be firm.
Stand firm therefore, BELT YOUR WAIST WITH TRUTH, COVERED WITH THE BREAST OF JUSTICE,
and shoes the FEET WITH THE PREPARATION OF THE GOSPEL OF PEACE;
in everything, taking the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the fiery darts of the evil one.
Take also the HELMET OF SALVATION, and the sword of the Spirit which is the word of God.
With all prayer and supplication pray at all times in the Spirit, and so, watch with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints;
and pray for me, so that a word may be given to me when I open my mouth, in order to make known without fear the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am a chain ambassador; that in proclaiming it I speak boldly, as I must speak.
But in order that you too may know my situation and what I do, Tychicus, beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make everything known to you,
whom I have sent to you precisely for this, to know about us and to comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love.
The farmer and his son
Once there was a sower who had a son.
One day there was a party in a nearby town,
and they thought to go buy things that they lacked.
Then they went out and
They brought an animal to carry things.
On the way, the animal went alone, and they went on foot.
On the way they found two men
that they came in the same way as them.
These men started talking to each other,
saying:
-It does not look good that these men are walking and their animal is alone.
"He is not carrying any cargo," they said.
Then the old man asked his son what he thought of what they said.
And her son said:
Really, what they said is true - he said.
So he ordered his son to get on the animal.
When they had gone a little further, they found two men who
they said:
-How foolish is this man who is walking!
Your son is young. Let him get down and walk.
But instead of him walking, he is riding
They said.
Then the man asked his son what he thought of what these men had said.
He replied and said:
"It is true what they say," he said.
So she told her son to get off the animal and he got on.
When they had gone a little further, they found two men again,
they started saying like this:
- It doesn't look good, the big one is mounted and his son is walking.
Wouldn't it be nice if
will he walk and let the animal carry his son?
Better for him to walk because he's already used to work,
and the young man, his son, does not know how to work, "they said.
So he asked his son what he thought
from what those men had said.
Then her son replied saying:
"It is true what they say," he said.
Then he got on the animal. So, the two of us
They got on the animal. When they had gone a little,
then they found other people who said like this:
- It does not look good that the two are mounted on that poor animal.
He is very skinny; no
will endure walking with them riding on it
they said.
So he spoke to his son saying:
"I beg you, son, to tell me what we should do now;
I don't know what else we can do. We already did everything, I think
- He said to his son
Then his son replied:
-Dad, would it be better if we hang the donkey on a stick and carry it?
So they lifted the donkey on a stick and kept going carrying it. And people would laugh when they saw them.
This story teaches us:
That we should not simply do what people think is good, but what we think is good.
Because we are never going to please people with our actions.
The lord who drowned in the river
A man was wearing a lot of jewelry.
When he was walking on the road he found a river, and he had to cross it. There was no bridge or boat to cross that river.
Then he took off his huaraches and started crossing it. Since the stones he was carrying were very heavy, he could not pass the river because the current was very strong. Then he tried harder, and kept going and came in the middle.
Then another man who stood on the shore said to him:
- Leave the things you carry because they are too heavy and you are in danger of falling in the water, and you will drown.
But he did not want to leave them. Then, as he weighed heavily, he fell into the water, and went to the bottom. There he drowned, and died. Not only her jewelry was destroyed, but also her life.
Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, and brother Timothy: To Philemon our beloved brother and collaborator,
and to Sister Apia, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church that is in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
because I hear of your love and the faith that you have towards the Lord Jesus and towards all the saints;
and I pray that the communion of your faith becomes effective through the knowledge of all the good that is in you through Christ.
For I have come to have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been comforted by you, brother.
Therefore, although I have a lot of freedom in Christ to order you to do what is convenient,
However, because of the love that I have for you, I beg you, being as I am, Paul, an elder, and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus,
I beg you for my son Onesimus, whom I have fathered in my prisons,
which was once useless to you, but now it is useful to you and me.
And I have sent it back to you in person, that is, as if it were my own heart,
Who would have wanted to retain me, to serve me in your place in my prisons for the gospel;
But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that your goodness was not as if by obligation, but of your own free will.
Because maybe this is why he stayed away from you for a while, so that you could receive him again forever,
not as a slave, but as more than a slave, as a beloved brother, especially for me, but how much more for you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
If you have me for a partner, accept it as you would accept me.
And if it has harmed you in any way, or owes you something, charge it to my account.
I, Pablo, write this with my own hand; I will pay it (for not telling you that even you owe me yourself).
Yes, brother, let me enjoy this benefit of you in the Lord; recreate my heart in Christ.
I write to you, confident in your obedience, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
And at the same time, prepare me also accommodation, because I hope that by your prayers I will be granted.
Epaphras, my prison companion in Christ Jesus, greets you;
also Marcos, Aristarco, Demas and Lucas, my collaborators.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus: To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, including the bishops and deacons:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God whenever I remember you,
always praying with joy in each of my prayers for all of you,
for your participation in the gospel from the first day until now,
being convinced of precisely this: that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus.
It is just that I feel this about all of you, because I carry you in my heart, because both in my prisons and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, all of you are participants with me of grace.
Because God is a witness to me how much I miss you all with the deep love of Jesus Christ.
And I ask this in prayer: that your love may abound more and more in true knowledge and in all discernment,
so that you choose the best, so that you are pure and blameless for the day of Christ;
filled with the fruit of righteousness that is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And I want you to know, brothers, that the circumstances in which I have been, have resulted in the further progress of the gospel,
in such a way that my prisons for the cause of Christ have become notorious throughout the Praetorian Guard and all others;
and that the majority of the brothers, trusting in the Lord because of my prisons, have much more courage to speak the word of God without fear.
Some, indeed, preach Christ even out of envy and rivalry, but others also do it willingly;
these do it for love, knowing that I have been designated for the defense of the gospel;
those proclaim Christ out of personal ambition, not sincerely, thinking of causing me distress in my prisons.
So what? That in any case, whether pretended or in truth, Christ is proclaimed; and in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice.
Because I know that this will result in my deliverance through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
According to my longing and hope that in nothing I will be ashamed, but with all confidence, even now, as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, either by life or by death.
Well, for me, living is Christ and dying is gain.
But if living in the flesh means fruitful work for me, then I don't know which one to choose,
because on both sides I feel compelled, having the desire to leave and be with Christ, because that is much better;
and yet continuing in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
And convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with all of you for your progress and joy in faith,
so that your deep satisfaction for me may abound in Christ Jesus because of my visit to you again.
Just behave in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come to see you, or remain absent, I can hear that you are standing in one spirit, striving together for the gospel faith;
in no way intimidated by your adversaries, which is a sign of perdition for them, but of salvation for you, and this, of God.
Because it has been granted to you for the love of Christ, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for Him,
suffering the same conflict that you saw in me, and that now you hear that it is in me.
Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any communion of the Spirit, if some affection and compassion,
make my joy complete, being of the same mind, preserving the same love, united in spirit, dedicated to the same purpose.
Do nothing out of selfishness or vainglory, but with a humble attitude each of you considers the other as more important than himself,
not each seeking his own interests, but rather the interests of others.
Let this attitude be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
which, although it existed in the form of God, did not consider being equal to God as something to hold on to,
but he stripped himself of himself in the form of a servant, making himself like men.
And being in the form of a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, and death on the cross.
Wherefore God also exalted him to the utmost, and conferred upon him the name which is above all names,
so that at the name of Jesus ALL KNEES of those who are in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth,
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
So, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work in your salvation with fear and trembling;
because God is the one who works in you, both wanting and doing, to sub-implicit.
Do all things without murmuring or arguing,
so that you may be blameless and simple, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in the midst of which you shine as luminaries in the world,
firmly holding the word of life, so that I have reason to glory in the day of Christ, since I will not have run in vain nor have I worked in vain.
But although I am poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and share my joy with all of you.
And you also, I beg you, rejoice in the same way, and share your joy with me.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be encouraged to know of your condition.
Well, I have no one else who feels the same way as me and who is sincerely interested in your well-being.
Because everyone seeks their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus.
But you know his proven merits, that he served with me in spreading the gospel as a son serves his father.
So I hope to send this one immediately as soon as I see how things are going with me;
and I trust in the Lord that I too will come soon.
But I thought it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother, collaborator and companion in the militia, who is also your messenger and servant for my needs;
Because he longed for all of you, and was distressed because you had heard that he had become ill.
Well, he was really sick, about to die; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, so that I would not have sadness over sadness.
So I have sent it with greater request, so that when you see it again, you will rejoice and I will be calmer as for you.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold those like him in high regard;
because he was on the verge of death for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me.
For the rest, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It does not bother me to write the same thing to you again, and for you it is a reason for security.
Beware of dogs, beware of bad workers, beware of false circumcision;
because we are the true circumcision, we worship in the Spirit of God and we glory in Christ Jesus, not putting trust in the flesh,
although I myself could also trust the meat. If someone else thinks they have reason to trust meat, I do much more:
circumcised on the eighth day, of the line of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as for the law, Pharisee;
as for zeal, persecutor of the church; as for the justice of the law, found irreproachable.
But all that for me was gain, I have considered as loss for the love of Christ.
And even more, I consider all things as loss in view of the incomparable value of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have lost everything, and I consider him as rubbish in order to win Christ,
and be found in Him, not having my own righteousness derived from the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness that proceeds from God on the basis of faith,
and to know Him, the power of His resurrection and participation in His sufferings, becoming like Him in His death,
in order to reach the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already achieved it or that I have already become perfect, but that I keep on going, in order to be able to achieve that for which I was also reached by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I do not consider myself to have already achieved it; but one thing I do: forgetting what's left behind and reaching out to what's ahead,
I press on toward the goal to obtain the prize of the supreme call of God in Christ Jesus.
So all of us who are perfect have this same attitude; and if you have a different attitude in something, God will also reveal it to you;
however, let us continue to live by the same standard that we have reached.
Brothers, be imitators of me, and observe those who walk according to the example you have in us.
Because many walk as I have told you many times, and now I tell you even crying, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ,
whose end is perdition, whose god is their appetite and whose glory is in their shame, who think only of earthly things.
Because our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
which will transform the body of our state of humiliation into conformity to the body of his glory, by the exercise of the power that he still has to hold all things to himself.
So, my brothers, loved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
I beg Evodia and Syntyche to live in harmony in the Lord.
In truth, faithful companion, I also ask you to help these women who have shared my struggles in the cause of the gospel, together with Clemente and my other collaborators, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say it: rejoice!
May your goodness be known to all men. The Lord is near.
Be anxious for nothing; rather, in everything, through prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.
And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
For the rest, brothers, everything that is true, everything worthy, everything just, everything pure, everything kind, everything honorable, if there is any virtue or something that deserves praise, meditate on this.
What you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice this, and the God of peace will be with you.
I was greatly glad in the Lord that you have finally revived your care for me; in truth, before you worried, but you lacked the opportunity.
Not that I speak because I have a shortage, because I have learned to be content whatever my situation is.
I know how to live in poverty, and I know how to live in prosperity; in everything and everything I have learned the secret of being satiated as well as being hungry, of having abundance and of suffering need.
I can do everything in Christ who strengthens me.
However, you have done well to share with me in my distress.
And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the preaching of the gospel, after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in a matter of giving and receiving, but you alone;
because even to Thessalonica you sent gifts more than once for my needs.
It is not that I seek the gift itself, but that I seek fruit that increases your account.
But I have received everything and I have abundance; I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus what you have sent: fragrant aroma, acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God.
And my God will supply all your needs, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Greet all the saints in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
All the saints greet you, especially those from Caesar's house.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Paul, an apostle (not through men or through any man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead),
and all the brothers who are with me: To the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I wonder that as soon as you have abandoned the one who called you by the grace of Christ, to follow a different gospel;
that it is not really another gospel, only that there are some who disturb you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But if even we, or an angel from heaven, announced to you another gospel contrary to the one we have announced to you, let him be anathema.
As we have said before, I also repeat now: If anyone announces to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be anathema.
Because do I now seek the favor of men or that of God? Or do I strive to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ.
Well, I want you to know, brothers, that the gospel that was announced by me is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, nor was it taught to me, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
Because you have heard about my old way of living in Judaism, how excessively I persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it,
and how I was superior in Judaism to many of my contemporary compatriots, showing much more zeal for the traditions of my ancestors.
But when God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, saw fit
reveal his Son in me so that I would announce him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but went to Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
So three years later, I went up to Jerusalem to meet Peter, and I was with him fifteen days.
But I did not see any other of the apostles, but James, the Lord's brother.
(In what I am writing to you, I assure you before God that I am not lying.)
Then I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
But he was not yet known in person in the Judean churches that were in Christ;
but they only heard it said: He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith he once wanted to destroy.
And they glorified God for my sake.
Then, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, also taking Titus.
I went up because of a revelation and presented the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but I did it privately to those with high reputations, to make sure that I did not run or had run in vain.
But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, even though he was Greek.
And this was because of the secretly introduced false brothers, who had infiltrated to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus, in order to subject us to slavery,
to which we do not yield for a moment, so as not to submit ourselves, so that the truth of the gospel may remain with you.
And of those who had a reputation for being something (what they were, nothing matters to me; God is no respecter of people), well, those who had a reputation taught me nothing.
On the contrary, when I saw that the gospel had been entrusted to those of the uncircumcision, just as Peter had been entrusted to those of the circumcision
(because he who worked effectively with Peter in his apostolate to those of the circumcision, also worked effectively for me in my apostolate to the Gentiles),
and recognizing the grace that had been given to me, James, Peter and John, who were considered as columns, gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we would go to the Gentiles and they to those of the circumcision.
They only asked us to remember the poor, the same as I was also willing to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him face to face, because he was to be condemned.
Because before some came from James, he ate with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and withdraw, because he feared those of the circumcision.
And the rest of the Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, in such a way that even Barnabas was dragged by their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they were not upright about the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of everyone: If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, why do you force the Gentiles to live like Jews ?
We are Jews by birth and not sinners among the Gentiles;
However, knowing that man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, we also have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we are justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law; since by the works of the law no one will be justified.
But if we have also been found sinners by seeking to be justified in Christ, is Christ, then, a minister of sin? No way!
Because if I rebuild what I once destroyed, I am a transgressor myself.
For through the law I died to the law, in order to live for God.
With Christ I have been crucified, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me; and the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
I do not nullify the grace of God, because if justice comes through the law, then Christ died in vain.
Oh foolish Galatians! Who has fascinated you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly presented as crucified?
This is the only thing I want to find out from you: did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith?
Are you so foolish? Having started with the Spirit, are you going to end now with the flesh?
Have you suffered so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain!
He who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law or by hearing with faith?
Thus Abraham believed God and it was counted as righteousness.
Therefore, know that those who are of faith are children of Abraham.
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, announced beforehand the good news to Abraham, saying: In you all nations will be blessed.
So those of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer.
For all who are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written: Cursed is everyone who does not abide in all things written in the book of the law, to do them.
And that no one is justified before God by the law is evident, because the just will live by faith.
However, the law is not of faith; on the contrary, He who makes them will live for them.
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us (because it is written: Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree),
so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham would come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak in human terms: a pact, even if it is human, once ratified no one invalidates it or adds conditions.
Now the promises were made to Abraham and his descendants. It does not say: and offspring, as referring to many, but rather one: and your offspring, that is, Christ.
What I am saying is this: The law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God, as to nullify the promise.
Because if the inheritance depends on the law, it no longer depends on a promise; but God granted it to Abraham by means of a promise.
So what was the law given for? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring to whom the promise had been made came, a law that was promulgated by angels by the hand of a mediator.
Now, a mediator is not on one side only, since God is one.
Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? No way! For if a law capable of imparting life had been given, then justice would certainly have depended on the law.
But Scripture locked everything under sin, so that the promise that is by faith in Jesus Christ would be given to all who believe.
And before faith came, we were locked up under the law, confined to the faith that was to be revealed.
So the law has become our teacher to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith.
But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor,
for you are all children of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ.
There is no Jew or Greek; there is neither slave nor free; there is neither man nor woman; because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you belong to Christ, then you are descendants of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.
So I say: While the heir is a minor, he is not different from the servant, even if he is the owner of everything,
but is under guardians and guardians until the age indicated by the father.
So also we, while we were children, were subject to servitude under the elemental things of the world.
But when the fullness of time came, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law,
that he might redeem those under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
And because you are children, God has sent the Spirit of his Son to our hearts, crying out: Abba! Father!
Therefore you are no longer a servant, but a son; and if a son, also an heir through God.
But at that time, when you did not know God, you were servants of those who by nature are not gods.
But now that you know God, or rather, that you are known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak, useless and elemental things, to which you wish to be enslaved again?
You observe the days, the months, the seasons and the years.
I fear for you, that perhaps in vain I have worked for you.
I beg you, brethren, become like me, for I too have become like you. You have done me no wrong;
But you know that it was because of a physical illness that I announced the gospel to you the first time;
and what for you was a test in my physical condition, that you did not despise or reject, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus himself.
Where, then, is that sense of blessing that you had? Well, I am a witness in your favor that if possible, you would have taken out your eyes and given them to me.
Have I therefore become your enemy by telling you the truth?
They are jealous of you, not with good intention, but they want to exclude you so that you show zeal for them.
It is good to always show zeal with good intention, and not only when I am present with you.
My children, for whom I suffer birth pains again until Christ is formed in you,
I would like to be present with you now and change my tone, because I am puzzled about you.
Tell me, you who wish to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
Because it is written that Abraham had two children, one of the servant and another of the free one.
But the son of the handmaid was born according to the flesh, and the son of the free one through promise.
This contains an allegory, for these women are two covenants; one comes from Mount Sinai who begets children to be slaves; this is Hagar.
Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and it corresponds to Jerusalem today, because she is in slavery with her children.
But the Jerusalem above is free; this is our mother.
For it is written: Rejoice, O barren one, you who do not conceive; break forth and cry out, you who do not have labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate one, than the one with a husband.
And you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
But just as then the one born according to the flesh persecuted the one born according to the Spirit, so it is now also.
But what does Scripture say? Cast out the maid and her son, for the son of the maid will not be an heir with the son of the free woman.
So, brothers, we are not children of the handmaid, but of the free one.
It was for freedom that Christ made us free; therefore stand firm, and never again submit to the yoke of slavery.
Look, I, Paul, I tell you that if you allow yourself to be circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
And again I testify to every man who is circumcised that he is bound to follow the whole law.
You have separated yourselves from Christ, you who seek to be justified by the law; you have fallen from grace.
For we, through the Spirit, wait by faith for the hope of justice.
Because in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything but faith that works out of love.
You were running well, who prevented you from obeying the truth?
This persuasion did not come from the one who calls you.
A little yeast ferments the entire dough.
I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will not choose another point of view; but whoever disturbs you will bear his punishment, whoever he is.
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In such a case, the scandal of the cross has been abolished.
Hopefully those who disturb you will also be mutilated!
Because you, brothers, were called to freedom; just don't use freedom as a pretext for the flesh, but serve each other out of love.
Because all the law in one word is fulfilled in the precept: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you bite and devour each other, be careful, lest you consume each other.
So I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the desire of the flesh.
Because the desire of the flesh is against the Spirit, and the desire of the Spirit is against the flesh, because they are opposed to each other, so that you cannot do what you want.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Now, the works of the flesh are evident, which are: immorality, impurity, sensuality,
idolatry, sorcery, enmities, lawsuits, jealousy, anger, rivalries, dissensions, sectarianisms,
envy, drunkenness, orgies and the like, against which I warn you, as I have already told you before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
For those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Let's not make ourselves vainglorious, provoking each other, envying each other.
Brothers, even if someone is caught in a fault, you who are spiritual, restore it in a spirit of meekness, looking at yourself, lest you too be tempted.
Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
Because if someone believes that he is something, being nothing, he deceives himself.
But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have reason to glory only with respect to himself, and not with respect to another.
Because each one will carry his own load.
And to the one who is taught the word, let him share every good thing with the one who teaches him.
Do not be fooled, nobody mocks God; for whatever a man sows, that will also reap.
For he who sows to his own flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, but he who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit.
And let us not tire of doing good, because in time, if we do not tire, we will reap.
So then, let us do good to all as we have opportunity, and especially to those of the family of faith.
Look at what big letters I write to you with my own hand.
Those who desire to please in the flesh try to force you to be circumcised, simply so as not to be persecuted because of the cross of Christ.
For even the very ones who are circumcised do not keep the law, but they want to make you circumcise to glory in your flesh.
But it never happens that I glory, but in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified for me and I for the world.
Because neither circumcision is anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
And to those who walk according to this rule, peace and mercy be upon them and upon the Israel of God.
From now on no one bothers me, because I carry the marks of Jesus on my body.
Brothers, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
For since the law only has the shadow of future goods and not the very form of things, it can never, by the same sacrifices that they offer continuously year after year, make perfect those who come near.
Otherwise, would they not have ceased to offer themselves, since the worshipers, once purified, would no longer be aware of sin?
But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year after year.
Because it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Therefore, when He enters the world, He says: Sacrifice and offering you have not wanted, but a body you have prepared for me;
in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you have not been pleased.
Then I said: "Behold, I have come (in the scroll of the book it is written about me) to do, O God, your will."
Having said above: Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings, and sacrifices for sin you have not wanted, nor have you been pleased with them (which are offered according to the law),
Then he said: Behold, I have come to do your will. He removes the first to establish the second.
By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ offered once for all.
And certainly every priest is standing, day after day, ministering and offering many times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins;
but He, having offered a single sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God,
waiting thereafter until their enemies are placed on their footstool.
For by an offering He has forever made perfect those who are sanctified.
And also the Holy Spirit bears witness to us; because after having said:
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days —the Lord says: I will put my laws in his heart, and in his mind I will write them, he adds:
And I will never remember his sins and iniquities again.
Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no longer an offering for sin.
So, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the Holy of Holies through the blood of Jesus,
by a new and living way that He inaugurated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Let us approach with a sincere heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts purified from bad conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the profession of our hope without hesitation, because faithful is he who promised;
and let's consider how to stimulate each other to love and good works,
not ceasing to congregate, as some have a habit, but exhorting each other, and much more to see that the day is coming.
Because if we continue to deliberately sin after having received the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer any sacrifice for sins,
but a horrendous expectation of judgment, and the fury of a fire that must consume the adversaries.
Anyone who violates the law of Moses dies without mercy because of the testimony of two or three witnesses.
How much more punishment do you think he will deserve who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has considered the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified as unclean, and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
Well we know the one who said: Mia is revenge, I will pay. And again: The Lord will judge his people.
It is a horrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God!
But remember the past days, when after being enlightened, you endured a great struggle of suffering;
on the one hand, being made a public spectacle in shame and affliction, and on the other, being companions of those who were treated like this.
Because you had compassion for the prisoners and you accepted with joy the dispossession of your property, knowing that you have for yourself a better and more lasting possession.
Therefore, do not reject your trust, which has a great reward.
Because you need patience, so that when you have done the will of God, you will obtain the promise.
For in a very short time, he who is to come will come and will not delay.
But my righteous will live by faith; and if he recoils, my soul will not be pleased with him.
But we are not of those who retreat to perdition, but of those who have faith for the preservation of the soul.
Now, faith is the certainty of what is expected, the conviction of what is not seen.
Because the ancients received approval for it.
By faith we understand that the universe was prepared by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made of visible things.
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained the testimony that he was just, God giving testimony of his offerings; and by faith, being dead, he still speaks.
By faith Enoch was taken to heaven so that he would not see death; and it was not found because God transferred it; because before being transferred he received testimony of having pleased God.
And without faith it is impossible to please God; because it is necessary that the one who approaches God believes that He exists, and that he is the remunerator of those who seek him.
By faith Noah, being warned by God about things not yet seen, fearfully prepared an ark for the salvation of his house, by which he condemned the world, and became heir of the justice that is according to faith .
By faith Abraham, when called, obeyed, leaving for a place that he was to receive as an inheritance; and left without knowing where he was going.
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a strange land, living in tents like Isaac and Jacob, joint heirs of the same promise,
because he was waiting for the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
Also by faith Sarah herself received strength to conceive, even after the proper age, because she considered faithful the one who had promised.
For this reason, an offspring like the stars of the sky in number, and innumerable like the sand that is on the seashore, was also born from one (and this almost dead in this regard).
All of these died in faith, without having received the promises, but having seen and accepted them with pleasure from afar, confessing that they were foreigners and pilgrims on earth.
Because those who say such things, clearly imply that they are looking for a homeland of their own.
And if they had really been thinking about that homeland they came from, they would have had the opportunity to return.
But in reality, they long for a better homeland, that is, heavenly. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.
By faith Abraham, when tested, offered Isaac; and he who had received the promises offered his only son;
It was he who was told: In Isaac you will be called offspring.
He considered that God was powerful to raise even from the dead, from where also, figuratively, he received him again.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even regarding future things.
By faith Jacob, when he died, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the end of his staff.
By faith Joseph, when he died, mentioned the exodus of the children of Israel, and gave instructions about their bones.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden by his parents for three months, because they saw that he was a beautiful child and they did not fear the edict of the king.
By faith Moses, when he was old enough, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God, than to enjoy the temporal pleasures of sin,
considering the reproach of Christ as greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; because he had his sights set on the reward.
By faith he left Egypt without fear of the king's wrath, because he stood firm as seeing the Invisible.
By faith he celebrated Easter and the sprinkling of blood, so that the exterminator of the firstborn would not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, and when the Egyptians tried to do so, they drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, after being surrounded for seven days.
By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish with the disobedient, for having received the spies in peace.
And what else shall I say? For I would not have time to count Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel and the prophets;
who by faith conquered kingdoms, did justice, obtained promises, closed mouths of lions,
they extinguished the violence of the fire, escaped from the edge of the sword; Being weak, they were made strong, they became powerful in war, they put foreign armies to flight.
Women received their dead through resurrection; and others were tortured, not accepting their release, in order to obtain a better resurrection.
Others experienced vituperations and lashes, and even chains and prisons.
They were stoned, sawn, tempted, killed by the sword; they walked here and there covered in sheep and goat skins; destitute, afflicted, mistreated
(of which the world was not worthy), wandering through deserts and mountains, through caves and caverns of the earth.
And all these, having obtained approval for their faith, did not receive the promise,
because God had provided something better for us, so that they would not be made perfect without us.
Therefore, since we have around us our great cloud of witnesses, let us also divest ourselves of all weight and the sin that so easily envelops us, and let us run with patience the race that lies ahead,
set our eyes on Jesus, the author and finisher of the faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising shame, and sat at the right hand of the throne of God.
Consider, then, the one who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, so that you do not tire or become discouraged in your heart.
Because still, in your fight against sin, you have not resisted to the point of shedding blood;
Furthermore, you have forgotten the exhortation that is addressed to you as children: My son, do not disregard the Lord's discipline, nor be discouraged when being rebuked by Him;
For the Lord who loves, disciplines, and scourges everyone who receives him as a son.
It is for your correction that you suffer; God treats you like children; for what son is there whom his father does not discipline?
But if you are without discipline, of which all have been made participants, then you are illegitimate children and not true children.
Furthermore, we had earthly parents to discipline us, and we respected them, how much more reason will we not be subject to the Father of our spirits, and live?
Because they disciplined us for a few days as it seemed, but He disciplines us for our good, so that we share in his holiness.
At present no discipline seems to be a cause of joy, but of sadness; however, to those who have been exercised through it, it afterwards yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness.
Therefore strengthen your weak hands and weak knees,
and make straight paths for your feet, so that the lame leg does not get out of joint, but heals.
Seek peace with all and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord.
Take care that no one fails to attain the grace of God; that no root of bitterness, sprouting, causes difficulties and by it many are contaminated;
that there is no immoral or profane person like Esau who sold his birthright for a meal.
Because you know that even later, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, because he found no occasion for repentance, although he sought it with tears.
For you have not come near a touchable mountain, nor burning fire, nor darkness, nor darkness, nor whirlwind,
neither at the sound of a trumpet, nor at the noise of words, such that those who heard prayed that they should not be spoken to any more;
because they could not bear the command: If even a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned.
So terrible was the spectacle, that Moses said: I am terrified and trembling.
You, however, have approached Mount Zion and the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and myriads of angels,
to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are inscribed in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous already made perfect,
and Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and the sprinkled blood that speaks better than Abel's blood.
See that you do not reject the speaker. Because if those did not escape when they rejected the one who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we turn away from the one who warns us from heaven.
His voice then shook the earth, but now He has promised, saying: Yet again, I will shake not only the earth, but also the sky.
And this expression: Yet, once again, indicates the removal of moving things, such as created things, so that things that are unshakable remain.
Therefore, since we receive a kingdom that is unshakable, let us show gratitude, by which we offer God an acceptable service with fear and reverence;
because our God is a consuming fire.
Brotherly love remain.
Do not forget to show hospitality, because by it some, without knowing it, hosted angels.
Remember the prisoners, as if you were prisoners with them, and the mistreated, since you are also in the body.
Let marriage be honorable in all, and the marriage bed undefiled, for the immoral and adulterers will be judged by God.
Let your character be without greed, happy with what you have, because He himself has said: I will never leave you nor forsake you,
so we confidently say: The Lord is the one who helps me; I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Remember your guides who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Do not let yourselves be carried away by diverse and strange doctrines, because it is a good thing for the heart to be strengthened with grace, not with food, from which those who took care of them received no benefit.
We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.
Because the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought to the sanctuary by the high priest as a sin offering, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore also Jesus, to sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered outside the door.
So let us go out to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
Because we do not have a permanent city here, but we look for the one to come.
Therefore, let us continually offer through him a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And do not forget to do good and to help one another, because God is pleased with such sacrifices.
Obey your shepherds and submit to them, because they watch over your souls, as those who are to give an account. Allow them to do it with joy and not complaining, because that would not be beneficial for you.
Pray for us, since we trust that we have a good conscience, wishing to conduct ourselves honestly in everything.
Furthermore, I urge you to do this, so that I may be restored to you very soon.
And the God of peace, who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead, the great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
make you fit in every good work to do his will, He working in us what is pleasing before Him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
I beg you, brothers, to bear the word of exhortation, for I have written briefly to you.
Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
Greet all your pastors and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
God, having spoken long ago, on many occasions and in many ways to the parents by the prophets,
in these last days he has spoken to us through his Son, whom he made heir of all things, through whom he also made the universe.
He is the radiance of his glory and the exact expression of his nature, and he sustains all things by the word of his power. After carrying out the purification of sins, he sat at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
being much better than the angels, for he has inherited a more excellent name than they.
For to which of the angels did God ever say: You are my son, I have begotten you today; and again: I will be Father to Him, and He will be Son to me?
And again, when he brings the Firstborn into the world, he says: And worship all the angels of God.
And of the angels he says: He who makes his angels, spirits, and his ministers, calls of fire.
But of the Son he says: Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever, and a scepter of equity is the scepter of your kingdom.
You have loved justice and hated iniquity; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with oil of joy more than your companions.
And: You, Lord, in the beginning laid the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
They will perish, but you remain; and they will all grow old like a garment,
and like a cloak you will roll them up; like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will never end.
But to which of the angels has he ever said: Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool?
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to serve for the sake of those who will inherit salvation?
Therefore, we must pay much greater attention to what we have heard, lest we deviate.
Because if the word spoken by angels turned out to be immutable, and every transgression and disobedience received a just retribution,
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation? Which, after it was first announced through the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard,
God testifying together with them, both by signs and wonders, and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will.
Because the world to come, about which we are speaking, did not subject angels.
But one has testified in a certain place saying: What is the man so that you remember him, or the son of the man so that you are interested in him?
You have made him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned him with glory and honor, and you have put him over the works of your hands;
You have held everything under his feet. Because by holding everything to him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all the things subject to it.
But we see the one who was made a little less than the angels, that is, Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he would taste death for all.
For it was fitting that he for whom all things are and for whom all things are, bringing many sons to glory, should make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one Father; therefore He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying: I will announce your name to my brothers, in the middle of the congregation I will sing hymns to you.
And again: I will trust in Him. And again: Behold, I and the children that God has given me.
So, since the children participate in flesh and blood, He also participated in the same, to nullify through death the power of the one who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
and to free those who, for fear of death, were subject to slavery throughout their lives.
Because it certainly does not help the angels, but it helps the descendants of Abraham.
Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in everything, so that he would become a merciful and faithful high priest in the things that concern God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
For inasmuch as He Himself was tempted in suffering, He is able to succor those who are tempted.
Therefore, holy brothers, participants in the heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the Apostle and High Priest of our faith.
Who was faithful to the one who appointed him, as was Moses in all the house of God.
Because He has been considered worthy of more glory than Moses, just as the builder of the house has more honor than the house.
For every house is made by someone, but the one who does all things is God.
And Moses was faithful in all the house of God like servant, for testimony of what was going to be said later;
but Christ was faithful as Son over the house of God, whose house we are, if we hold firm to the end our confidence and the glory of our hope.
Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says: If you hear his voice today,
do not harden your hearts, as in provocation, as in the day of trial in the desert,
where your parents tempted me by testing me, and they saw my works for forty years.
For this reason I was displeased with that generation, and said: "they always stray in their hearts, and they have not known my ways";
as I swore in my anger, "They will not enter into my rest."
Be careful, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to turn away from the living God.
Before exhort each other every day, while still saying: Today; lest any of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
Because we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold firm to the end the principle of our security,
as soon as it is said: If you hear his voice today, do not harden your hearts, as in provocation.
For who, having heard, provoked him? Were not all those who left Egypt led by Moses?
And who were you upset with for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the desert?
And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
So we see that they could not enter because of their unbelief.
Therefore, let us fear, lest while the promise of entering his rest still remain, some of you seem not to have reached it.
Because in truth, the good news has been announced to us, as well as to them; But the word they heard did not benefit them because it was not accompanied by faith in those who heard it.
For we who have believed enter into that rest, just as He has said: As I swore in my wrath, "they will not enter into my rest," even though His works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For thus he has said in a certain place about the seventh day: And God rested on the seventh day from all his works;
and again in this passage: they will not enter into my rest.
Therefore, since there is still some to enter, and those to whom the good news was previously announced did not enter because of their disobedience,
God again sets a day: Today. Saying through David after a long time, as has been said before: If you hear his voice today, do not harden your hearts.
Because if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day after that.
There remains, therefore, a sacred rest for the people of God.
For he who has entered his rest has himself rested from his works, as God rested from his.
Therefore, let us strive to enter that rest, lest anyone fall following the same example of disobedience.
Because the word of God is alive and effective, and sharper than any two-edged sword; It penetrates to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and is powerful in discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
And there is no created thing hidden from his view, but all things are exposed and naked before the eyes of the one to whom we have to give an account.
Having, therefore, a great High Priest who transcended the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us retain our faith.
Because we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in everything like us, but without sin.
Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.
Because every high priest taken from among men is constituted in favor of men in the things that refer to God, to present offerings and sacrifices for sins;
and he can act kindly towards the ignorant and misguided, since he himself is subject to weaknesses;
and for that reason he is obliged to offer sacrifices for sins, both for himself and for the people.
And no one takes this honor for himself, but receives it when called by God, just as Aaron was.
In the same way, Christ did not glorify himself to become High Priest, but rather he glorified him who said to him: You are my son, I have begotten you today;
as it also says in another passage: You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.
Christ, in the days of his flesh, having offered prayers and supplications with great cry and tears to the one who could deliver him from death, was heard because of his reverent fear;
and although he was a Son, he learned obedience for what he suffered;
and having been made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all who obey him,
being constituted by God a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
We have a lot to say about this, and it is difficult to explain, since you have been slow to hear.
For although you should already be teachers, again you need someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God, and you have come to need milk and not solid food.
Because everyone who drinks only milk is not used to the word of justice, because he is a child.
But solid food is for adults, who by practice have their senses trained to discern good and evil.
Therefore, leaving the elementary teachings about Christ, let us advance towards maturity, not laying again the foundation of repentance for dead works and faith towards God,
of the teaching on washing, of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do, if God allows it.
Because in the case of those who were once enlightened, who tasted the heavenly gift and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
who liked the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
but after they fell, it is impossible to renew them again for repentance, since they again crucify for themselves the Son of God and expose him to public ignominy.
Because the land that drinks the rain that often falls on it and produces useful vegetation for those for whom it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God;
but if it produces thorns and thistles it is worth nothing, it is close to being cursed, and ends up being burned.
But as for you, beloved, even if we speak in this way, we are persuaded of the things that are better and that belong to salvation.
Because God is not unjust enough to forget your work and the love you have shown towards his name, having served, and still serving, the saints.
But we want each of you to show the same request to the end, to achieve the full assurance of hope,
so that you are not lazy, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
For when God made the promise to Abraham, being unable to swear by a greater one, he swore by himself,
saying: I will certainly bless you and I will certainly multiply you.
And so, having waited patiently, he obtained the promise.
Because men swear by one greater than themselves, and for them an oath given as confirmation is the end of all discussion.
Wherefore God, desiring to show more fully to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his purpose, he swore an oath,
so that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have sought refuge are greatly encouraged to grasp the hope set before us,
which we have as an anchor of the soul, a sure and firm hope, that penetrates even behind the veil,
where Jesus entered for us as a forerunner, made, according to the order of Melchizedek, High Priest forever.
Because this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, went to meet Abraham when he returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him.
Abraham gave him the tithe of all the spoils, whose name means first king of justice, and then also king of Salem, that is, king of peace,
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having no beginning of days or end of life, being made similar to the Son of God, he remains a priest in perpetuity.
Consider, then, the greatness of this man to whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave the tithe of the best of the spoils.
And in truth those of the sons of Levi who receive the office of priest, have a commandment in the law to collect the tithe from the people, that is, from their brothers, although these are descendants of Abraham.
But the one whose genealogy does not come from them received the tithe from Abraham and blessed the one who had the promises.
And without any discussion, the minor is blessed by the older.
Here, certainly mortal men receive tithing, but there, one receives it from whom it is testified that he lives.
And, so to speak, through Abraham even Levi, who received tithes, paid tithes,
because he was still on his father's back when Melchizedek met him.
Now, if perfection was through the Levitical priesthood (for on that basis the people received the law), what need was there for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not appointed according to the order of Aaron?
Because when the priesthood is changed, a change in the law necessarily also occurs.
For the one about whom these things are said belongs to another tribe, of which no one has served at the altar.
Because it is evident that our Lord descended from Judah, a tribe of which Moses did not say anything regarding priests.
And this is even more evident, if in the likeness of Melchizedek another priest rises,
that it has become so, not on the basis of a law of physical requirements, but according to the power of an indestructible life.
For it bears witness: You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.
Because certainly, the previous commandment is annulled for being weak and useless
(for the law made nothing perfect), and a better hope is introduced, through which we draw near to God.
And because it was not without an oath,
for in truth they became priests without an oath, but He by an oath of which said to him: The Lord has sworn and will not change: "You are a priest forever",
therefore, Jesus has become a surety of a better covenant.
The previous priests were more numerous because death prevented them from continuing,
but He preserves his unchangeable priesthood since it remains forever.
Therefore He is also powerful to save forever those who draw near to God through Him, since He lives perpetually to intercede for them.
Because it was fitting for us to have such a High Priest: holy, innocent, immaculate, set apart from sinners and exalted beyond heaven,
that he does not need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and later for the sins of the people; because he did this once for all, when he offered himself.
Because the law designates weak men as high priests, but the word of the oath, which came after the law, designates the Son, made perfect forever.
Now the main point of what has been said is this: we have such a High Priest, who has sat at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
as a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord erected, not man.
Because every High Priest is constituted to present offerings and sacrifices, so it is necessary that he also have something to offer.
So if He were on earth, He would not even be a priest, there being priests who present offerings according to the law;
which serve what is a copy and shadow of heavenly things, just as Moses was warned by God when he was about to erect the tabernacle; Well, He says: Look, do all things according to the pattern that was shown to you on the mountain.
But now He has obtained a so much better ministry, because He is also the mediator of a better covenant, established on better promises.
For if that first covenant had been without defect, no place would have been sought for the second.
For reproaching them, He says: Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, in which I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
not like the pact I made with their parents the day I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not remain in my covenant, and I ignored them, says the Lord.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their minds, and write them on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they will be my people.
And none of them will teach his fellow citizen or any of his brother, saying: "Know the Lord", because all will know me, from the youngest to the oldest of them.
For I will have mercy on his iniquities, and I will never again remember his sins.
When He said: A new covenant, He made the first one out of date; and what becomes old-fashioned and aging is about to disappear.
Now even the first covenant had ordinances of worship and the earthly sanctuary.
Because there was a tabernacle prepared in the previous part, in which were the chandelier, the table and the consecrated loaves; This is called the Holy Place.
And behind the second veil was a tabernacle called the Holy of Holies,
which had the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered all in gold, in which there was a golden urn containing the manna and the rod of Aaron that sprouted and the tables of the covenant;
and on it were the cherubs of glory that gave shade to the mercy seat; but these things cannot be discussed in detail now.
Thus prepared these things, the priests continually enter the first tabernacle to officiate in worship;
but in the second, the high priest only enters once a year, not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of the people committed in ignorance.
The Holy Spirit wanting to imply this: that the way to the Holy of Holies had not yet been revealed as long as the first tabernacle remained standing;
which is a symbol for the present time, according to which offerings and sacrifices are presented that cannot make perfect in his conscience the one who practices that cult,
since they have to do only with food and drinks, and various ablutions and ordinances for the body, imposed until the time of reforming things.
But when Christ appeared as High Priest of future goods, through a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not with this creation,
and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered the Holy of Holies once for all, having obtained eternal redemption.
For if the blood of the goats and the bulls, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled on those who have been defiled, they sanctify for the purification of the meat,
How much more the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, will purify your conscience of dead works to serve the living God?
And so He is the mediator of a new covenant, so that having taken place a death for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Because where there is a will, it is necessary that the testator's death occurs.
Well, a will is valid only in the event of death, since it is not effective while the testator lives.
Therefore, even the first covenant was not inaugurated without blood.
For when Moses finished promulgating all the commandments to all the people, according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book itself and all the people,
saying: This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded you.
And in the same way he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the utensils of the ministry.
And according to the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without bloodshed there is no forgiveness.
Therefore, it was necessary that the representations of things in the heavens be purified in this way, but the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifices than these.
Because Christ did not enter a holy place made by hands, a representation of the true, but in heaven itself, to present himself now in the presence of God for us,
and not to offer himself many times, as the high priest enters the Holy of Holies every year with the blood of others.
Otherwise it would have been necessary for him to suffer many times since the foundation of the world; but now, once in the consummation of the centuries, it has manifested itself to destroy sin by the sacrifice of itself.
And just as it is decreed that men die only once, and after this, judgment,
so also Christ, having once been offered to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, unrelated to sin, for the salvation of those who eagerly await him.
There was in Caesarea a man named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort called the Italian,
Godly and God-fearing with his whole house, who gave alms to the Jewish people and prayed to God continually.
At about the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God who entered where he was and said to him: Cornelius.
Staring at him and terrified, Cornelius said: What do you want, Lord? And he said to him: Your prayers and alms have ascended as a memorial before God.
Now dispatch some men to Joppa, and send for a man named Simon, who is also called Peter.
He is staying with a tanner named Simon, whose house is by the sea.
And after the angel speaking to him was gone, Cornelius called two of the servants and a godly soldier who were constantly serving him,
and after explaining everything, he sent them to Joppa.
The next day, while they were on the road and were approaching the city, Pedro went up to the roof to pray at about the sixth hour.
He was hungry and wanted to eat; but while they prepared something to eat, an ecstasy came over him;
and he saw * the open sky and an object like a great canvas descending, lowered to the earth by the four points;
there were in it all kinds of quadrupeds and reptiles of the earth, and birds of the sky.
And he heard a voice: Get up, Peter, kill and eat.
But Peter said: No way, Lord, because I have never eaten anything impure or unclean.
Again, for the second time, a voice came to him: What God has cleansed, do not call it impure.
And this happened three times, and immediately the canvas was picked up to heaven.
While Peter was puzzled thinking about what the vision he had seen would mean, behold, the men who had been sent by Cornelius, after asking about Simon's house, appeared at the door;
and calling, they asked if Simon, who was also called Peter, was staying there.
And while Peter meditated on the vision, the Spirit said to him: Look, three men are looking for you.
Get up, then, come down and do not hesitate to accompany them, because I have sent them.
Peter went down to where the men were, and said to them: Behold, I am the one you seek; What is the cause for which you have come?
And they said: Cornelius the centurion, a righteous and God-fearing man, and who is highly esteemed by the entire nation of the Jews, was ordered by a holy angel to make you come to his house to hear your words.
Then he invited them in and hosted them. The next day he got up and went with them, and some of Joppa's brothers accompanied him.
The next day he entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them and had gathered his relatives and close friends.
And it came to pass that when Peter was about to enter, Cornelius went out to meet him, and fell down at his feet, worshiped him.
But Peter raised him up, saying: Stand up; I'm a man too.
And conversing with him, he went in and found * many people gathered.
And he said to them: You know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or visit a foreigner, but God has shown me that I must not call any man impure or unclean;
therefore, when I was called, I came without objection. I ask, then, for what reason have you sent me to call?
And Cornelius said: At this same hour, four days ago, I was praying at my house at the ninth hour; and behold, a man in shining garments stood before me,
and said *: "Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your works of charity have been remembered before God.
Send therefore Joppa, and call Simon, who is also called Peter; he is staying at Simon the tanner's house, by the sea. "
Therefore I sent for you instantly, and you have done well to come. Now therefore we are all here present before God, to hear all that the Lord has commanded you.
Then Peter, opening his mouth, said: I certainly now understand that God is no respecter of persons,
but in every nation whoever fears him and does what is right, is accepted.
The message that He sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, that He is Lord of all;
You yourselves know what happened in all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism that John preached.
You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil; because God was with him.
And we are witnesses to all the things that he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. And they also killed him, hanging him on a cross.
He raised this God on the third day and made him manifest,
not to all the people, but to the witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God, that is, to us who ate and drank with Him after he rose from the dead.
And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to solemnly testify that this Jesus is the one God has appointed as Judge of the living and the dead.
Of this all the prophets bear witness, that by his name, everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins.
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the message.
And all the believers who were of the circumcision, who had come with Peter, were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had also been poured out on the Gentiles,
for they heard them speak in tongues and exalt God. Then Pedro said:
Can anyone deny the water so that those who have received the Holy Spirit are baptized the same as we are?
And he commanded that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. So they asked him to stay with them for a few days.
The apostles and brothers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision rebuked him,
saying: You entered the house of uncircumcised and ate with them.
Then Pedro began to explain what happened in order, saying:
I was praying in the city of Joppa, and I saw in ecstasy a vision: an object like a great canvas that descended from the sky at four points, and came to me.
When I fixed my eyes on him and observed him, I saw land quadrupeds, wild beasts, reptiles and birds of the sky.
I also heard a voice saying to me: "Get up Pedro, kill and eat."
But I said, "No way, Lord, because nothing impure or unclean has ever entered my mouth."
But a voice from heaven answered a second time: "What God has cleansed, do not call it impure."
This happened three times, and everything was taken up to heaven again.
And behold, at that moment three men appeared in front of the house where we were, who had been sent to me from Caesarea.
And the Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. These six brothers also went with me and we entered that man's house,
and he told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, who said to him: "Send Joppa and have Simon, who is also called Peter, brought in,
who will tell you words by which you will be saved, you and your whole house. "
When I began to speak, the Holy Spirit descended on them, just as it did on us at first.
Then I remembered the Lord's words when he said: "John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit."
So if God gave them the same gift that He also gave us after believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to be able to hinder God?
And when they heard this, they calmed down, and glorified God, saying: So also to the Gentiles has God granted the repentance that leads to life.
Now, those who had been scattered because of the persecution that occurred when Stephen died, reached Phenicia, Cyprus and Antioch, not speaking the word to anyone, but only to the Jews.
But there were some of them, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who when arriving in Antioch, also spoke to the Greeks, preaching the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed were converted to the Lord.
And the news of this reached the ears of the Jerusalem church and they sent Barnabas to Antioch,
who, when he came and saw the grace of God, rejoiced and encouraged everyone to remain faithful to the Lord with a firm heart;
because he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord.
And Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul;
and when he found it, he brought it to Antioch. And they met with the church for a whole year, and taught the multitudes; and the disciples were called Christians for the first time in Antioch.
In those days prophets descended from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And rising one of them, called Agabo, implied by the Spirit, that there would certainly be a great famine in all the earth. And this happened during Claudio's reign.
The disciples, according to what each one had, decided to send a contribution for the help of the brothers who lived in Judea.
And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Around this time King Herod reached out to some who belonged to the church to mistreat them.
And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
And seeing that this pleased the Jews, he also had Peter arrested. This happened during the days of unleavened bread.
And having taken him prisoner, he put him in prison, handing him over to four soldiers' pickets to guard him, with the intention of taking him to the town after Easter.
So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was fervently praying to God for him.
And that night, when Herod was about to take him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains; and some guards in front of the door guarded the jail.
And behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him, and a light shone in the cell; And the angel touched Peter on the side, and woke him up saying: Get up soon. And the chains fell from his hands.
And the angel said to him: Get dressed and put on your sandals. And so he did. And the angel said to him, "Wrap yourself in your cloak and follow me.
And going out, he followed him, and he did not know that what the angel was doing was real, but believed that he was seeing a vision.
When the first and second guards had passed, they reached the iron gate leading to the city, which opened for itself; and they went out and followed a street, and immediately the angel turned away from him.
When Peter came to, he said: Now I know for a fact that the Lord has sent his angel, and has rescued me from Herod's hand and from all that the Jewish people expected.
Realizing this, he went to the house of Mary, John's mother, also called Mark, where many were gathered and praying.
And when he knocked on the front door, a maid named Rode came out to see who it was.
Recognizing Pedro's voice, she did not open the door with joy, but ran inside and announced that Pedro was at the door.
And they said to her: You are crazy! But she insisted that it was so. And they said: It is their angel.
But Pedro kept calling; and when they opened, they saw it and were amazed.
And motioning for them to be silent, he told them how the Lord had taken him out of prison. And he said to them: Report these things to James and to the brothers. So he went out, and went to another place.
When daylight came, there was no small fuss among the soldiers about what would have become of Pedro.
And Herod, after searching for it and not finding it, questioned the guards and ordered them to be taken to execute them. Then he came down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there for a time.
Herod was very angry with those of Tire and Sidon; but they, by mutual agreement, presented themselves before him, and having won over to Blasto, the king's waiter, they asked for peace because their territory was supplied by that of the king.
On the appointed day Herod, dressed in royal clothing, sat on the rostrum and harangued them.
And the people shouted: Voice of a god and not of a man is this!
Instantly an angel of the Lord struck him, for not having given glory to God; and died of worms.
But the word of the Lord grew and multiplied.
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem after completing their mission, taking with them John, also called Mark.
In the church that was in Antioch there were prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simon named Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, who had been raised with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul.
As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
So after fasting, praying, and laying hands on them, they sent them off.
They, therefore, sent by the Holy Spirit, descended to Seleucia and from there embarked for Cyprus.
Arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews; and they also had Juan as an assistant.
After having traveled all over the island to Paphos, they found a certain magician, a false Jewish prophet named Barjesus,
who was with the proconsul Sergio Paulo, an intelligent man. He called for Barnabas and Saul, and he wanted to hear the word of God.
But Elymas the magician (for thus his name is translated), opposed them, trying to divert the proconsul from the faith.
Then Saul, also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his gaze on him,
He said: You son of the devil, who are full of all deceit and fraud, enemy of all justice, will you not cease to twist the straight ways of the Lord?
Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you; you will go blind and you will not see the sun for some time. Instantly mist and darkness fell on him, and he was looking for someone to guide him by the hand.
Then the proconsul, when he saw what had happened, believed, marveled at the doctrine of the Lord.
Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, and arrived at Perge from Pamphylia; but John, turning away from them, returned to Jerusalem,
but they, leaving Perge, arrived at Antioch from Pisidia; On the Sabbath they entered the synagogue and sat down.
After reading the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent them to say: Brothers, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, speak.
Paul stood up, and gesturing with his hand said: Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen:
The God of this people of Israel, chose our parents and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt, and with raised arm he brought them out of it.
And for a period of about forty years he endured them in the desert.
After destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed his lands as an inheritance; all this lasted about four hundred and fifty years.
And after this, he gave judges to the prophet Samuel.
So they asked for a king, and God gave Saul son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
After removing it, he raised David as king, of whom God also testified and said: "I HAVE FOUND DAVID, son of Jesse, A MAN ACCORDING TO MY HEART, who will do all my will."
From his offspring, according to the promise, God has given Israel a Savior, Jesus,
after John preached, before his coming, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
When John was about to finish his career, he said: "Who do you think I am? I am not the Christ; but behold, there comes after me one of whom I am not worthy to untie the sandals from his feet."
Brothers, children of the lineage of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this salvation is sent to us.
For those who dwell in Jerusalem and its rulers, without acknowledging Him or the words of the prophets that are read every Sabbath, fulfilled these scriptures, condemning Him.
And though they found no cause to kill him, they asked Pilate to have him killed.
And when they had fulfilled all that was written about Him, they took Him down from the cross and put Him in a grave.
But God raised him from the dead;
and for many days he appeared to those who had gone up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.
And we announce the good news that the promise made to parents,
God has fulfilled it to our children by resurrecting Jesus, as it is also written in the second psalm: MY SON IS YOU; I HAVE BORN YOU TODAY.
And as for raising him from the dead to never return to corruption, God has spoken in this way: I WILL GIVE YOU THE SAINTS and FAITHFUL mercies promised TO DAVID.
Therefore he also says in another psalm: YOU WILL NOT ALLOW YOUR HOLY ONE TO SEE CORRUPTION.
Because David, having served the purpose of God in his own generation, slept, and was buried with his parents, and saw corruption.
But the one whom God raised from the dead did not see corruption.
Therefore, brothers, know that through Him the forgiveness of sins is announced to you;
and that of all the things of which you could not be justified by the law of Moses, through Him, everyone who believes is justified.
Take care, therefore, that what is spoken of in the prophets does not come upon you:
LOOK, SCRATCHERS, WONDERS AND PERISH; BECAUSE I DO A WORK IN YOUR DAYS, A WORK YOU WOULD NEVER BELIEVE EVEN IF SOMEONE DESCRIBED IT TO YOU.
As Paul and Barnabas left, the people begged them to tell them about these things on the next Sabbath.
And after the synagogue meeting ended, many of the Jews and God-fearing proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, urged them to persevere in the grace of God.
On the next Sabbath, almost the entire city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
But when the Jews saw the crowd, they became zealous, and blaspheming, contradicted what Paul said.
Then Paul and Barnabas spoke courageously and said: It was necessary that the word of God be preached to you first; but since you reject it and do not judge yourself worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.
For thus the Lord has commanded us: I HAVE PUT YOU AS LIGHT FOR THE GENTILES, SO THAT YOU BRING SALVATION TO THE END OF THE EARTH.
When the Gentiles heard this, they rejoiced and glorified the word of the Lord; and all who were ordained to eternal life believed.
And the word of the Lord spread throughout the region.
But the Jews instigated the pious and distinguished women, and the most prominent men in the city, and provoked a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region.
Then they shook the dust off their feet against them and went to Iconium.
And the disciples were continually filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.
It happened that at Iconium they entered the synagogue of the Jews together, and spoke in such a way that a large crowd believed, both Jews and Greeks.
But the Jews who did not believe, excited and filled with hatred the spirits of the Gentiles against the brothers.
Yet they stood there a long time, speaking valiantly, trusting in the Lord, who confirmed the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by his hands.
But the crowd of the city was divided, and some were with the Jews and others with the apostles.
And when the Gentiles and the Jews, with their rulers, prepared an attack to mistreat and stone them,
the apostles realized this and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, Derbe, and its surroundings;
and there they continued to proclaim the gospel.
And there was a man in Lystra who was sitting, disabled from the feet, lame from his mother's bosom and who had never walked.
He listened to Paul speak, who, fixing his gaze on him, and seeing that he had faith to be healed,
He said with a loud voice: Get up straight on your feet. And he jumped up and walked.
When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the language of Lycaonia: The gods have become like men and have come down to us.
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercury, because this was the one who was speaking.
And the priest of Jupiter, whose temple was on the outskirts of the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates, and wanted to offer sacrifices together with the crowd.
But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard it, they tore their clothes and threw themselves into the crowd, shouting
and saying: Men, why do you do these things? We are also men of the same nature as you, and we announce the gospel to you so that you may turn from these vain things to a living God, WHO MADE HEAVEN, EARTH, THE SEA, AND EVERYTHING THERE IS IN THEM;
which in past generations allowed all nations to follow their own paths;
and yet he did not fail to bear witness of himself, doing good and giving you heavenly showers and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with sustenance and joy.
And even saying these words, they could hardly prevent the crowds from offering them sacrifice.
But some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having persuaded the crowd, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, thinking that he was dead.
But as the disciples surrounded him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day he set out with Barnabas to Derbe.
And after announcing the gospel to that city and making many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch,
strengthening the spirits of the disciples, exhorting them to persevere in the faith, and saying: It is necessary that through many tribulations we enter the kingdom of God.
After elders were appointed to them in each church, having prayed with fasts, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
They passed through Pisidia and arrived at Pamphylia.
And after preaching the word in Perge, they went down to Attalia;
and from there they sailed for Antioch, where they had been entrusted to the grace of God for the work that they had accomplished.
When they arrived and gathered in the church, they reported on all the things that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they stayed a long time with the disciples.
And some came down from Judea and taught the brothers: If you are not circumcised according to the rite of Moses, you cannot be saved.
As Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brothers determined that Paul and Barnabas, and some others of them, should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders to deal with this matter.
So, being sent by the church, they passed through Phenicia and Samaria, recounting in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and caused great joy to all the brothers.
When they arrived in Jerusalem, they were greeted by the church, the apostles, and the elders, and reported everything that God had done with them.
But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed, rose up saying: It is necessary to circumcise them and command them to keep the law of Moses.
Then the apostles and the elders met to consider this matter.
And after much debate, Peter got up and said to them: Brothers, you know that in the first days God chose from among you that through my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe.
And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He also gave it to us;
and no distinction was made between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now, why do you tempt God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our parents nor we have been able to carry?
Rather we believe that we are saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus, in the same way that they also are.
The entire crowd was silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul, who related the signs and wonders that God had done among the Gentiles through them.
When they finished speaking, Jacobo responded, saying: Listen to me, brothers.
Simon has related how God at first saw fit to take from among the Gentiles a people for his name.
And with this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written:
AFTER THIS I WILL RETURN, AND I WILL REBUILD THE TABERNACLE OF DAVID THAT HAS FALLEN. AND I WILL REBUILD ITS RUINS, AND I WILL RAISE IT AGAIN,
FOR THE REST OF MEN TO SEEK THE LORD, AND ALL THE GENTILES WHO ARE CALLED BY MY NAME,
SAYS THE LORD, WHO MAKES ALL THIS KNOWN FROM ANCIENT TIMES.
Therefore, I think that we do not disturb those who are converted to God from among the Gentiles,
but write to them to abstain from things contaminated by idols, from fornication, from the strangled and from blood.
Because Moses from ancient generations has in each city those who preach it, because every Sabbath is read in the synagogues.
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose among them some men to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas, called Barsabas, and Silas, prominent men among the brothers,
And they sent this letter with them: The apostles, and the brothers who are elders, to the brothers in Antioch, Syria and Cilicia who are from the Gentiles, greetings.
Since we have heard that some of us, whom we do not authorize, have troubled you with their words, disturbing your souls,
it seemed good to us, having reached a common agreement, to choose some men to send you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who will also verbally inform you of the same things.
Because it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us not to impose a greater burden on you than these essential things:
that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from fornication. If you keep yourselves from such things, you will do well. Have a good time.
So they, after being fired, went down to Antioch; and assembling the congregation, they delivered the letter;
and when they read it, they rejoiced at the comfort it imparted to them.
Being Judas and Silas also prophets, they exhorted and comforted the brothers with a long message.
And after spending some time there, they were fired in peace by the brothers to return to those who had sent them.
But it seemed good to Silas to stay there.
But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching with many others, the word of the Lord.
After some days Paul said to Barnabas: Let's go back and visit the brothers in all the cities where we have proclaimed the word of the Lord, to see how they are doing.
Barnabas also wanted to take with them Juan, called Marcos,
But Paul considered that they should not take with them who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not accompanied them in the work.
There was such a disagreement that they separated from each other, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed for Cyprus.
But Paul chose Silas and left, being entrusted by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
And he traveled through Syria and Cilicia confirming the churches.
It also reached Derbe and Lystra. And there was a certain disciple named Timothy, the son of a believing Jewish woman, but of a Greek father,
of which the brothers who were in Lystra and Iconium spoke highly.
Paul wanted him to go with him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews in those regions, because they all knew that his father was Greek.
And as they passed through the cities, they handed over the agreements made by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem, to be observed.
So the churches were confirmed in the faith, and daily grew in number.
They passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been prevented by the Holy Spirit from speaking the word in Asia,
and when they reached Misia, they tried to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow it.
And passing through Misia, they descended to Troas.
At night Paul was shown a vision: a man from Macedonia stood, pleading with him and saying: Come to Macedonia and help us.
When he had the vision, we immediately tried to go to Macedonia, convinced that God had called us to announce the gospel to them.
So, setting sail from Troas, we sailed directly to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis,
and from there to Philippi, which is a main city in the province of Macedonia, a Roman colony; in this city we stay for several days.
And on the Sabbath we went outside the door, on the bank of a river, where we thought there would be a place of prayer; we sat down and started talking to the women who had gathered.
And I was listening to a certain woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, seller of purple cloth, who worshiped God; and the Lord opened his heart to receive what Paul said.
When she and her family were baptized, she begged us, saying: If you judge that I am faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay there. And persuaded us to go.
And it happened that while we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination, who gave her masters great profits, by guessing.
She, following Paul and us, cried out saying: These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation.
And this he did for many days; But displeasing this to Paul, he turned and said to the spirit: I order you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to come out of her! And it came out at that very moment.
But when their masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them to the plaza, before the authorities;
and after presenting them to the superior magistrates, they said: These men, being Jews, stir up our city,
and they proclaim customs that we are not allowed to accept or observe, since we are Romans.
The crowd rose up against them, and the senior magistrates, tearing their clothes, ordered them to be whipped with rods.
And after giving them many lashes, they threw them in jail, ordering the jailer to keep them safely;
who, having received that order, threw them into the inner dungeon and secured their feet in the stocks.
At around midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang hymns to God, and the prisoners listened to them.
Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; instantly all the doors were opened and everyone's chains were released.
When the jailer woke up and saw all the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was going to kill himself, believing that the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying: Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here.
So he asked for light and rushed inside, and trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas,
and after taking them out, he said: Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
They answered: Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you and all your house will be saved.
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
And he took them at that same hour of the night, and washed their wounds; He was baptized right away, he and all his.
Taking them home, he fed them, and he rejoiced greatly at having believed in God with all his own.
When daylight came, the senior magistrates dispatched their officers, saying: Release those men.
The jailer communicated these words to Paul, saying: The superior magistrates have ordered that you be released. So go out now and go in peace.
But Paul said to them: Although we are Roman citizens, they have flogged us publicly without judgment and have thrown us in jail; And now they release us in secret? No way! That they themselves come to take us out.
And the officers reported this to the senior magistrates, and upon learning that they were Romans, they were afraid.
So they came and begged them, and after taking them out, they begged them to leave the city.
When they got out of prison, they went to Lidia's house, and when they saw the brothers, they comforted them and they left.
After passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they reached Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And Paul, according to his custom, went to them and for three rest days he argued with them based on the Scriptures,
explaining and presenting evidence that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying: This Jesus, whom I am announcing to you, is the Christ.
Some of them believed, and joined Paul and Silas, along with a great multitude of God-fearing Greeks and many of the leading women.
But the Jews, full of envy, took some evil men out of the public square, organized a mob and rioted the city; and storming the house of Jason, they tried to get them out to the town.
Not finding them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting: Those who have turned the world upside down have come here too;
and Jason has received them, and they all act against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
And they rioted the crowd and the city authorities who were hearing this.
But after receiving bail from Jason and the others, they released them.
Immediately the brothers sent Paul and Silas to Berea at night, who, when they arrived, went to the synagogue of the Jews.
These were more noble than those of Thessalonica, for they received the word with all solicitude, searching the Scriptures daily, to see if these things were so.
That is why many of them believed, as well as a good number of Greeks, men and women of distinction.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God had been proclaimed by Paul also in Berea, they also went there to stir and stir up the crowds.
Then the brothers immediately sent Paul to go to the sea; but Silas and Timothy stayed there.
Those who led Paul took him to Athens; and after receiving orders that Silas and Timothy join him as soon as possible, they departed.
As Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit burned within him as he contemplated the city full of idols.
So he argued in the synagogue with the Jews and with the fearful gentiles of God, and daily in the square with those who were present.
Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also disputed with him. And some said: What does this babbler mean? And others: He seems to be a preacher of strange divinities — because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection.
They took it and took it to the Areopagus, saying: Can we know what this new teaching that you proclaim is?
Because we hear you say strange things; therefore we want to know what they mean.
(Well, all the Athenians and foreigners visiting there did not spend their time in anything else but in saying or hearing something new.)
Then Paul standing up in the middle of the Areopagus, said: Athenian men, I perceive that you are very religious in every way.
Because as I passed by and observed the objects of your adoration, I also found an altar with this inscription: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Well, what you adore without knowing, that I announce to you.
The God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made by human hands,
nor is it served by human hands, as if it needed something, since He gives everyone life and breath and all things;
and of one he made all the nations of the world to dwell on all the face of the earth, having determined appointed substitutes and the limits of his habitation,
so that they would look for God, if somehow, feeling, they find him, although he is not far from any of us;
because in Him we live, move and exist, just as some of your own poets have said: "Because we too are his lineage."
Being, therefore, lineage of God, we should not think that the divine nature is similar to gold, silver or stone, sculpted by art and human thought.
Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now declares to all men, everywhere, to repent,
for He has established a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness, by means of a Man whom He has appointed, having presented evidence to all men by raising Him from the dead.
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, but others said, We will hear you again about this.
Then Paul came out from among them.
But some joined him and believed, among whom were Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
After this Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
And he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had just arrived from Italy with his wife Priscilla, since Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. It was to them,
and since he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and they worked together, since their trade was to make tents.
And he argued in the synagogue every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.
When Silas and Timothy descended from Macedonia, Paul devoted himself entirely to preaching the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
But when they opposed him and blasphemed him, he shook his clothes and said: Your blood be on your heads; I am clean; From now on I will go to the Gentiles.
And leaving from there, he went to the house of a man named Titus Justus, who worshiped God, whose house was next to the synagogue.
And Crispus, the synagogue officer, believed in the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians, upon hearing, believed and were baptized.
And through a vision during the night, the Lord said to Paul: Do not be afraid, keep talking and do not be silent;
because I am with you, and nobody will attack you to harm you, because I have a lot of people in this city.
And he stayed there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
But being Gallio proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up against Paul and brought him before the court,
saying: This persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.
And when Paul was going to speak, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were a matter of injustice or a depraved crime, O Jews, I would tolerate you, as would be reasonable.
But if they are questions of words and names, and of your own law, there you; I am not willing to be a judge of these things.
And he threw them out of the court.
Then they all seized Sosthenes, the synagogue officer, and beat him in front of the court, but Gallio ignored any of this.
And Paul, after staying many more days, said goodbye to the brothers and sailed to Syria, and with him went Priscilla and Aquila. And in Cencrea he had his hair cut because he had made a vow.
They reached Ephesus and he left them there. And when he entered the synagogue, he argued with the Jews.
When they begged him to stay longer, he did not consent,
but he took leave of them, saying: I will come to you again, if God wants. And set sail from Ephesus.
Upon landing at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem to greet the church, and then went down to Antioch.
And after spending some time there, he went out, visiting the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Then a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, and who was powerful in the Scriptures.
He had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught exactly the things concerning Jesus, although he only knew the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained the way of God more accurately.
When he wanted to pass to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive him; and when he arrived, he greatly helped those who by grace had believed,
because he vigorously refuted the Jews in public, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.
And it came to pass that while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul, having journeyed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus and met some disciples,
And he said to them: Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they answered him: No, we have not even heard if there is a Holy Spirit.
Then he said: In what baptism, then, were you baptized? They replied: At the baptism of John.
And Paul said: John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who would come after him, that is, in Jesus.
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
There were a total of about twelve men.
Paul entered the synagogue, and for three months he continued to speak boldly, arguing and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
But when some hardened and became disobedient by speaking ill of the Way before the crowd, Paul turned away from them, taking the disciples away, and argued daily at the Tyrant school.
This continued for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
And God performed extraordinary miracles by the hand of Paul,
in such a way that they even brought handkerchiefs or aprons from their bodies to the sick, and the diseases left them and the evil spirits left them.
But also some of the Jews, itinerant exorcists, tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus on those who had evil spirits, saying: I command you by Jesus, to whom Paul preaches.
And seven sons of a certain Esceva, one of the chief Jewish priests, were the ones who did this.
But the evil spirit answered, and said to them: I know Jesus, and I know who Paul is, but who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit was, threw himself on them and overpowered them more than they did, so that they fled from that house naked and wounded.
And all the inhabitants of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks, knew this; and fear seized them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was exalted.
Many of those who had believed also continued to come, confessing and declaring the things they practiced.
And many of those who practiced magic, gathering their books, burned them in full view; They calculated its price and found that it amounted to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Thus the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed.
After these things, Paul decided in the spirit to go to Jerusalem after touring Macedonia and Achaia, saying: After I have been there, I must also visit Rome.
And having sent to Macedonia two of his assistants, Timothy and Erastus, he remained in Asia for some time.
At that time there was no small commotion due to the Camino.
Because a certain silversmith named Demetrius, who carved Diana's silver temples and produced many profits for the craftsmen,
he gathered these together with the workers of similar offices, and said: Comrades, you know that our prosperity depends on this trade.
And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but in almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded a large number of people, and has separated them, saying that the gods made with hands are not true gods.
And we are not only in danger of our office falling into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana is considered worthless, and that she, who is worshiped by all of Asia and the entire world, will be stripped of her greatness.
When they heard this, they were filled with anger, and they cried out, saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
And the city was filled with confusion, and together they rushed into the theater, dragging Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul's traveling companions, who were from Macedonia.
When Paul wanted to go to the assembly, the disciples did not allow it.
Also some of the asiarchs, who were friends of Paul, sent to him and repeatedly begged him not to venture into the theater.
So some shouted one thing and others another, because there was confusion in the assembly, and most did not know why they had gathered.
And some of the crowd deduced that it was Alexander, since the Jews had pushed him forward. Then Alexander, making a sign of silence with his hand, wanted to make his defense before the assembly.
But when they realized that he was a Jew, a clamor arose from all of them, crying for about two hours: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
Then the secretary, after calming the crowd, said *: Citizens of Ephesus, is there any man who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great Diana and of the image that descended from heaven?
Since these facts are undeniable, you must remain calm and do nothing rashly.
Because you have brought these men who neither steal temples nor blaspheme our goddess.
Thus, if Demetrius and the architects who are with him have a complaint against any, the courts are open and the proconsuls willing; present your accusations against each other.
But if you demand more than this, it will be decided in a legitimate assembly.
Because we are certainly in danger of being accused of sedition in relation to what happened today, since there is no just cause for this, and therefore we will not be able to explain this uproar.
And having said this, he dismissed the assembly.
The first story I wrote, Theophilus, was about everything that Jesus began to do and teach,
until the day he was received upstairs, after he had given instructions by the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.
To these also, after his suffering, he appeared alive with many convincing proofs, appearing to them for forty days and speaking to them concerning the kingdom of God.
And gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father: Which, he said, you heard from me;
for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days.
Then those who were gathered asked him, saying: Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?
And He said to them: It is not for you to know the times or the times that the Father has set with his own authority;
but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you; and you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.
After saying these things, he was lifted up as they watched, and a cloud received him and hid him from his eyes.
And while staring at the sky as He ascended, it came to pass that two men in white robes appeared next to them,
who said to them: Men of Galilee, why are you looking at the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken from you to heaven, will come in the same way, just as you have seen him go to heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, on the way to a Sabbath.
When they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where Pedro, Juan, Jacobo and Andrés, Felipe and Tomás, Bartolomé and Mateo, Jacobo son of Alfeo, Simón el Zelote and Judas, son of Jacobo, were staying.
All of these were unanimous, continually dedicated to prayer together with the women, and with Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
At that time Peter stood up among the brothers (a group of about one hundred and twenty people was gathered there), and said:
Brethren, the Scripture had to be fulfilled in which through the mouth of David the Holy Spirit foretold about Judas, who became the guide of those who seized Jesus.
Because he was numbered among us and received part in this ministry.
(This, then, with the price of his infamy, he acquired a piece of land, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle, and all his entrails spilled.
And this came to the knowledge of all who lived in Jerusalem, so that that land was called Acéldama in its own language, that is, field of blood.)
For in the book of Psalms it is written: MAY HER DWELLING BE DESERTED, AND THERE IS NO ONE TO LIVE IN IT; and: LET ANOTHER TAKE YOUR POSITION.
Therefore, it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus lived among us,
beginning from the baptism of John, until the day when he was received from among us above, one is made a witness with us of his resurrection.
They presented two: José, called Barsabás (who was also called Justo) and Matías.
And having prayed, they said: You, Lord, who know the heart of all, show us which of these two you have chosen
to occupy this ministry and apostolate, from which Judas deviated to go to his rightful place.
They cast lots and luck fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
After the commotion stopped, Paul sent for the disciples, and having exhorted them, saying goodbye, he left to go to Macedonia.
And after touring those regions and having exhorted them a lot, he arrived in Greece.
He spent three months there, and having plotted a conspiracy against him on the part of the Jews when he was about to embark for Syria, he decided to return to Macedonia.
And accompanied by Sópater de Berea, son of Pirro; Aristarchus and Second of the Thessalonians; Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia.
But these had gone ahead and were waiting for us at Troas.
We sailed to Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and in five days we reached where they were in Troas; and there we stayed seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when we were meeting to break bread, Pablo spoke to them, thinking of leaving the next day, and he continued his speech until midnight.
There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered;
and a young man named Eutychus was sitting at the window; and as Pablo continued speaking, Eutico fell into a deep sleep until, overcome by sleep, he fell from the third floor and was raised dead.
But Paul came down and stretched out on him, and after embracing him, said: Do not be alarmed, because he is alive.
And going back upstairs, after breaking bread and eating, he talked at length with them until dawn, and then he left.
And they took the boy alive, and were greatly comforted.
So we, going ahead to take the ship, set sail for Asón, with the purpose of picking up Paul there, because he had decided so, wanting to go by land to Asón.
When he found us in Asón, we received him on board and headed to Mytilene.
And setting sail from there, the next day we arrived in front of Chio; and the next day we docked at Samos; having made a stopover in Trogilio, the next day we arrived at Miletus.
Because Paul had decided to put Ephesus aside so as not to stop in Asia, because he was rushing to be, if possible, on the day of Pentecost in Jerusalem.
And from Miletus he sent a message to Ephesus and called the elders of the church.
When they came to him, he said to them: You know how I have been with you all along, from the first day I was in Asia,
serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears and trials that came upon me because of the intrigues of the Jews;
how I did not shy away from declaring anything useful to you, and from teaching you publicly and from house to house,
solemnly testifying, to both Jews and Greeks, of repentance towards God and of faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, I, bound in spirit, go to Jerusalem without knowing what will happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit solemnly witnesses me in every city, saying that chains and afflictions await me.
But in no way do I value my life as valuable to myself, in order to finish my career and the ministry I received from the Lord Jesus, to solemnly bear witness to the gospel of God's grace.
And now, behold, I know that none of you, among whom I have preached the kingdom, will ever see my face again.
Therefore, I bear witness to you this day that I am innocent of everyone's blood,
for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God.
Take care of yourselves and of all the flock, in the midst of which the Holy Spirit has made you bishops to shepherd the church of God, which He bought with his own blood.
I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come among you who will not spare the flock,
and that among yourselves some will rise up speaking wicked things to drag the disciples after them.
Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease to admonish each one with tears.
Now I entrust you to God and to the word of his grace, which is powerful to build you up and give you the inheritance among all the sanctified.
Neither silver, nor gold, nor anyone's clothes have I coveted.
You know that these hands served me for my own needs and those of those who were with me.
In everything I showed you that, working, you must help the weak, and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, who said: "It is more blessed to give than to receive."
When he finished speaking, he knelt down and prayed with all of them.
And they began to cry inconsolably, and hugging Pablo, they kissed him,
especially distressed at the word he had said that they would never see his face again. And they accompanied him to the boat.
After separating from them, we set sail and headed directly for Cos, the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Pátara;
and finding a ship leaving for Phenicia, we got on board and set sail.
When we sighted Cyprus, leaving it to the left, we sailed towards Syria, and disembarked at Tire because the ship had to leave its cargo there.
After finding the disciples, we stayed there for seven days, and they told Paul, by the Spirit, not to go to Jerusalem.
And after those days we left and began our journey while all of them, with their wives and children, accompanied us to the outskirts of the city. After kneeling down and praying on the beach, we said goodbye to each other.
So we got on the boat and they returned to their homes.
After the journey from Tire, we arrived at Tolemaida, and after greeting the brothers, we stayed with them one day.
The next day we left and arrived at Caesarea, and entering the house of Philip, the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.
He had four daughters damsels who prophesied.
And stopping there for several days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea,
who came to see us, and took the belt of Paul, tied his hands and feet, and said: Thus says the Holy Spirit: "Thus shall the Jews bind the owner of this belt in Jerusalem, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles "
Hearing this, we and those who lived there begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Then Paul answered: What are you doing, crying and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
Since he was not persuaded, we kept quiet, saying to ourselves: May the Lord's will be done.
After these days we prepare and begin to go up to Jerusalem.
And some of the disciples from Caesarea also accompanied us, leading us to Mnason of Cyprus, a former disciple with whom we should stay.
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us with joy.
And the next day Paul went with us to see James, and all the elders were present.
And after greeting them, he began to tell them one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
And they, when they heard it, glorified God and said to him: Brother, you see how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed, and they are all jealous of the law;
And they have been told about you, that you teach all the Jews among the Gentiles to depart from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or observe the traditions.
So what is to be done? Because no doubt the crowd will gather because they will hear that you have come.
Therefore, do this as we tell you: We have four men who have made a vow;
take them and purify yourselves along with them, and pay their expenses to shave their heads; and everyone will know that there is nothing certain in what they have been told about you, but that you also live orderly, obeying the law.
But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have written to them, having decided that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the strangled and from fornication.
Then Paul took the men with him, and the next day, purifying himself along with them, he went to the temple, notifying of the end of the days of purification, until the sacrifice was offered for each one of them.
When the seven days were near, the Jews of Asia, seeing him in the temple, began to incite all the people, and laid hands on him,
shouting: Israelites, help us! This is the man who teaches everyone, everywhere, against our people, the law and this place; Furthermore, he has even brought Greeks to the temple, and has desecrated this holy place.
For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and thought that Paul had brought him to the temple.
The whole city was in turmoil, and the town came running from everywhere; seizing Paul they dragged him out of the temple, and instantly closed the doors.
While they were trying to kill him, notice came to the commander of the Roman company that all of Jerusalem was in confusion.
Immediately he took with him some soldiers and centurions, and ran towards them; When they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped hitting Pablo.
Then the commander came and seized him, and ordered that he be bound with two chains; and asked who he was and what he had done.
But among the crowd some were shouting one thing and others another, and since he could not find out with certainty the facts, due to the tumult, he ordered that they take him to the barracks.
When he reached the stands, it happened that the soldiers had to carry him because of the violence of the mob;
because the crowd of the people followed him, shouting: Die!
When they were about to put Pablo in the barracks, he said to the commander: Can I tell you something? And he said *: Do you know Greek?
So you are not the Egyptian who long ago raised a revolt and brought the four thousand men out of the assassins into the desert?
Paul replied: I am a Jew from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of a city not without importance; I beg you to allow me to speak to the people.
When the commander granted permission, Paul, standing on the steps, signaled to the people with his hand, and when there was great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying:
Brothers and parents, listen to my defense that I am now presenting to you.
When they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they observed even more silence; and he said*:
I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but raised in this city, educated under Gamaliel in strict accordance with the law of our parents, being as jealous of God as all of you are today.
And I pursued this Path until death, chaining and throwing both men and women in jails,
of which the high priest and the entire council of elders can testify. Also from them I received letters for the brothers, and I set out for Damascus with the purpose of bringing prisoners to Jerusalem also those who were there, to be punished.
And it came to pass that when I was on my way, being near Damascus, about noon, suddenly a very bright light flashed from the sky around me,
and I fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?"
And I answered: "Who are you, Lord?". And He said to me: "I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting."
And those who were with me saw the light, certainly, but they did not understand the voice of the one who spoke to me.
And I said, "What should I do, Lord?" And the Lord said to me, "Get up and go into Damascus, and there you will be told everything that you have been ordered to do."
But as I could not see because of the brightness of that light, those who were with me took me by the hand and I entered Damascus.
And one named Ananias, a godly man according to the norms of the law, and to whom all the Jews who lived there bore good witness,
He came to me, and standing next to me, he said: "Brother Saul, receive your sight." At that very moment I raised my eyes and looked at him.
And he said: "The God of our fathers has appointed you to know his will, and to see the Righteous One and hear a word from his mouth.
For you will be a witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.
And now why do you stop? Get up and get baptized, and wash your sins calling on his name. "
And it came to pass that when I returned to Jerusalem and found myself praying in the temple, I fell into an ecstasy,
and I saw the Lord saying to me: "Hurry up and leave Jerusalem soon because they will not accept your testimony about me."
And I said: "Lord, they know well that in one synagogue after another, I imprisoned and flogged those who believed in you.
And when the blood of your witness Esteban was spilled, there I was also giving my approval, and taking care of the cloaks of those who were killing him. "
But He said to me, "Go, because I am going to send you away, to the Gentiles."
They heard it until he said this, and then they raised their voices and said: Get that guy off the ground! He must not be allowed to live.
As they shouted and threw their cloaks and put dust in the air,
the commander ordered him to be taken to the barracks, saying that he must be spanked to find out why they were yelling at him in that way.
When they stretched him on leashes, Paul said to the centurion who was there: Is it lawful for you to scourge a Roman citizen without having tried him?
When the centurion heard this, he went to the commander and warned him, saying: What are you going to do? Because this man is Roman.
The commander came to Paul and said: Tell me, are you a Roman? And he said: Yes.
And the commander replied: I acquired this citizenship for a large amount of money. And Paul said: But I am a citizen by birth.
Then those who were going to spank him instantly released him; and the commander was also afraid when he learned that Paul was a Roman, and because he had bound him with chains.
The next day, wanting to know with certainty the cause for which the Jews accused him, he released him, and ordered the chief priests and the entire council to meet; And taking Paul, he put him before them.
Then Paul, staring at the council, said: Brothers, to this day I have lived before God with a perfectly clear conscience.
And the high priest Ananias commanded those near him to strike him in the mouth.
Then Paul said to him: God will strike you, whitewashed wall! Do you sit to judge me according to the law, and violate the law by ordering me to be beaten?
Those who were there watching said: Do you insult the high priest of God?
And Paul said: I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest; Because it is written: YOU WILL NOT SPEAK EVIL OF ONE OF THE AUTHORITIES OF YOUR PEOPLE.
Then Paul, realizing that one part was Sadducees and the other Pharisees, raised his voice in the council: Brothers, I am a Pharisee, son of Pharisees; I am judged on account of the hope of the resurrection of the dead.
When he said this, there was an altercation between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Because the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, no angel, no spirit, but the Pharisees believe all this.
Then there was a great uproar; and some of the scribes from the group of the Pharisees arose, argued heatedly, saying: We find nothing wrong with this man; but what if a spirit or an angel has spoken to you?
And when a great altercation arose, the commander feared that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, and ordered the troops to descend, forcefully remove him from among them and take him to the barracks.
The following night the Lord appeared to him and said: Be of good cheer, because as you have faithfully testified of my cause in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome.
When daylight came, the Jews hatched a conspiracy and pledged themselves under oath, saying that they would not eat or drink until they had killed Paul.
And those who hatched this conspiracy were more than forty,
who went to the chief priests and the elders and said: We have pledged ourselves under solemn oath not to prove anything until we have killed Paul.
Now then, you and the council, notify the commander to make him appear before you, as if you wanted to make a more thorough investigation to solve his case; we for our part are ready to kill him before he arrives.
But Paul's sister's son found out about the ambush, and he went and entered the barracks, and gave notice to Paul.
And Pablo, calling one of the centurions, said: Take this young man to the commander, because he has something to report to him.
Then, taking him with him, he led him to the commander, and said to him: "Pablo, the prisoner, called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to tell you.
And the commander, taking him by the hand, and taking him aside, asked him: What do you have to report to me?
And he answered: The Jews have agreed to ask you to take Paul to the council tomorrow with the pretext of making a more in-depth inquiry about him.
But pay no attention to them, because more than forty of them, who have pledged themselves not to eat or drink until they have killed him, are waiting in ambush; They are ready waiting for a promise from you.
Then the commander released the young man, entrusting him: Do not tell anyone that you have informed me of these things.
And calling two of the centurions, he said: Prepare two hundred soldiers by the third hour of the night, with seventy horsemen and two hundred lancers, to go to Caesarea.
They must also prepare horses for Paul, and bring him safely to Governor Felix.
And the commander wrote a letter in these terms:
Claudio Lisias, to the Most Excellent Governor Félix: Salud.
When this man was arrested by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them, knowing that he was a Roman, I went with the troops and rescued him.
And wanting to make sure of the cause for which they accused him, I took him to his council
and I found that they were charging him on matters of his law, but not on any charge that merited death or imprisonment.
When I was informed that there was a conspiracy against the man, I sent him to you immediately, also instructing his accusers to press charges against him.
So the soldiers, according to their orders, took Paul and took him to Antipatris at night.
And the next day they returned to the barracks leaving the horsemen to continue with him,
who, after arriving in Caesarea and delivering the letter to the governor, also presented him to Paul.
When the governor read it, he asked what province it was from; and upon learning that it was from Cilicia,
He said: I will hear you when your accusers are also present. And he ordered that they keep it in Herod's Praetorium.
Five days later the high priest Ananías descended with some elders and with a lawyer named Tertulo; and they presented their charges against Pablo to the governor.
After Paul was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying to the governor: Since we have obtained much peace through you, and that by your providence reforms are being carried out in favor of this nation,
We, by all means and everywhere, acknowledge this with deep gratitude, O Most Excellent Felix.
But in order not to disturb you further, I beg you, with your usual kindness, to grant us a brief audience.
For we have discovered that this man is truly a plague, and that he causes dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and leader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
He even tried to desecrate the temple; so we arrested him and wanted to try him according to our law.
But Commander Lysias intervened, with great violence took it from our hands,
sending their accusers to come to you. If you question him about everything I've said, you can confirm the things of which we accuse him.
The Jews also joined the accusation, ensuring that, indeed, that was all.
After the governor signaled him to speak, Paul replied: Knowing that for many years you have been judge of this nation, I gladly present my defense,
since you can verify the fact that it was not more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
And neither in the temple, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city itself did they find me arguing with anyone or causing a riot.
Nor can they prove to you what they now accuse me of.
But this I admit before you, that according to the Path that they call sect, I serve the God of our parents, believing everything that is according to the law and that is written in the prophets;
having the same hope in God that they also harbor, that there will certainly be a resurrection of both the righteous and the wicked.
For this reason, I also strive to always maintain a blameless conscience before God and before men.
And, after several years, I have come to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings;
doing which they found me in the temple, after having purified me, not with multitude nor with fuss. But there were certain Jews from Asia,
and that they should have come here before you and charged me if they had anything against me.
Or if not, that they themselves say what crime they found when I appeared before the council,
were it not for this one statement that I made out loud while I was among them: "By the resurrection of the dead I am judged before you today."
Then Felix, knowing more about the Camino, postponed the ruling, saying: When Commander Lysias comes, I will decide your case.
And he instructed the centurion to keep Paul in custody, but with some measure of freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from serving him.
But a few days later, Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish, and he ordered Paul to be brought in and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
And when Paul spoke about justice, self-control and the coming judgment, Felix, frightened, said: Go for now, but when I have time I will send you to call.
At the same time, he hoped that Paul would give him money; that's why I used to call him frequently and talk to him.
But after two years, Porcius Festus came as Felix's successor, and wishing to do the Jews a favor, Felix imprisoned Paul.
Festus, then, three days after arriving in the province, went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
And the chief priests and the most influential Jews brought charges against Paul, and urged Festus,
asking him, against Paul, the favor of having him brought to Jerusalem (at the same time preparing an ambush to kill him on the way).
But Festus replied that Paul was in custody at Caesarea, and that he would shortly depart there himself.
Therefore, he said, * that the most influential of you go there with me, and if there is something wrong with the man, let them accuse him.
After staying no more than eight or ten days between them, he went down to Caesarea, and the next day he sat in court and ordered that Paul be brought.
When he arrived, the Jews who had descended from Jerusalem surrounded him, presenting against him many and serious accusations that they could not prove,
while Paul said in self defense: I have not committed any crime, neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar.
But Festus, wanting to do the Jews a favor, answered Paul, and said: Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be tried before me for these accusations?
Then Paul answered: I am before Caesar's tribunal, which is where I must be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you too well know.
If I am, then, an evildoer and have done something worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; But if none of those things they accuse me of is true, no one can turn me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.
Then Festus, having deliberated with the council, replied: To Caesar you have appealed, to Caesar you will go.
After several days, King Agrippa and Berenice arrived at Caesarea and went to greet Festus.
As they were there many days, Festus presented the case of Paul before the king, saying: There is a man that Felix imprisoned,
about which, while I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and elders of the Jews brought charges against him, asking for a condemnatory sentence against him.
I replied that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over a man without the accused first confronting his accusers, and having the opportunity to defend himself against the charges.
So when they gathered here without delay, the next day I sat in court and ordered the man brought.
And when the accusers arose, they presented accusations against him, but not of the kind of crimes that I supposed,
they simply had certain questions against him about his own religion, and about a certain Jesus, already dead, of whom Paul claimed he was alive.
But being puzzled how to investigate these questions, I asked him if he was willing to go to Jerusalem and be judged of these things there.
But since Paul appealed that he be held in custody for the emperor to give the ruling, I ordered him to continue in custody until I sent him to Caesar.
Then Agripa said to Festo: I too would like to hear the man. Tomorrow, said Festus, you will hear it.
So the next day, when Agripa and Berenice entered the auditorium amid great pomp, accompanied by the commanders and the important men of the city, by order of Festus, Pablo was brought.
And Festus * said: King Agrippa and all the others here with us; Here you see this man about whom the entire multitude of the Jews, both in Jerusalem and here, made a request to me, crying out that he should no longer live.
But I found that he had done nothing worthy of death; and since he himself appealed to the emperor, I have decided to send him.
But I have nothing definite about him to write to my lord. That is why I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after being questioned, I have something to write about.
Because it seems absurd to me, when sending a prisoner, not also to report the charges against him.
And Agrippa said to Paul: You are allowed to speak on your behalf. Then Pablo, extending his hand, began his defense:
Regarding all that the Jews accuse me of, I consider myself fortunate, King Agrippa, to be able to present my defense before you today,
above all, because you are an expert in all the customs and controversies among the Jews; therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
Well, all the Jews know my life from my youth, which from the beginning passed between those of my people and in Jerusalem;
since they have long known about me, if they are willing to testify, that I lived as a Pharisee, according to the strictest sect of our religion.
And now I am on trial for the hope of God's promise to our parents:
that our twelve tribes hope to achieve by faithfully serving God night and day. And for this hope, O king, I am accused by the Jews.
Why is it considered incredible among you that God raises the dead?
I certainly believed that I must do many evils against the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
And this is precisely what I did in Jerusalem; I not only locked many of the saints in jails with the authority received from the chief priests, but also, when they were sentenced to death, I cast my vote against them.
And punishing them frequently in all the synagogues, he sought to compel them to blaspheme; and greatly enraged against them, he continued to persecute them even in foreign cities.
Busy in this, when he went to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests,
At noon, O King, on the way, I saw a light from the sky brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who traveled with me.
And after we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language: "Saulo, Saulo, why are you chasing me? It is hard for you to kick against the stinger."
I then said: "Who are you, Lord?". And the Lord said: "I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
But get up and stand up; because I have appeared to you in order to designate you as minister and witness, not only of the things that you have seen, but also of those in which I will appear to you;
Delivering you from the Jewish people and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
that you may open their eyes that they may turn from darkness to light, and from Satan's dominion to God, that they may receive, through faith in me, the forgiveness of sins and inheritance among those who have been sanctified. "
Therefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
but he announced, first of all to those who were in Damascus and also in Jerusalem, and later throughout the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
For this reason, some Jews arrested me in the temple and tried to kill me.
So having received help from God, I continue to this day witnessing to both small and great, declaring nothing more than what the prophets and Moses said would happen:
that the Christ was to suffer, and that by reason of his resurrection from the dead, He was to be the first to proclaim light to both the Jewish people and the Gentiles.
While Paul was saying this in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice: Paul, you are crazy! Your much knowing is making you lose your mind!
But Paul said *: I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but I speak words of truth and sanity.
Because the king understands these things, and I also speak to him with confidence, because I am convinced that he does not ignore any of this; Well this has not been done in secret.
King Agrippa, do you believe in the prophets? I know what you think.
And Agrippa replied to Paul: In a short time you will persuade me to become a Christian.
And Paul said: God wish that, whether it be in a short time or in a long time, not only you, but also all who hear me today, become as I am, except for these chains.
Then the king, the governor, Berenice, and those who were sitting with them got up,
and as they withdrew, they spoke among themselves, saying: This man has done * nothing worthy of death or imprisonment.
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man could be released if he had not appealed to Caesar.
When it was decided that we should embark for Italy, Pablo and some other prisoners were handed over to a centurion of the Augusta company, named Julio.
And embarking on an Adramite ship that was about to set sail for the coastal regions of Asia, we went to sea accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
The next day we arrived in Sidon. Julio treated Pablo with benevolence, allowing him to go to his friends and be cared for by them.
From there we started and sailed under the protection of the island of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.
And after sailing across the sea off the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Mira de Licia.
There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship that was going to Italy, and embarked us on it.
And after sailing slowly for many days, and arriving with difficulty in front of Gnido, since the wind did not allow us to advance any further, we sailed in the shelter of Crete, in front of Salmón;
and coping with difficulty, we arrived at a place called Buenos Puertos, near which was the city of Lasea.
When a long time had passed and navigation had become dangerous, since even the Fast had already passed, Paul admonished them,
saying to them: Friends, I see that this trip will surely be with prejudice and serious losses, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.
But the centurion was more persuaded by what was said by the pilot and the captain of the ship, than by what Pablo said.
And since the port was not suitable for wintering, most decided to go to sea from there, in case it was possible to arrive at Fenice, a port of Crete that faces northeast and southeast, and spend the winter there .
When a moderate south wind began to blow, believing they had accomplished their purpose, they set anchor and sailed off shore to Crete.
But not long after, a hurricane wind called Euroclidón began to blow from the ground,
and the ship being whipped, and not being able to face the wind, we abandoned ourselves to it and let ourselves drift.
Sailing in the shelter of a small island called Clauda, ​​with great difficulty we were able to hold the skiff.
After they lifted it up, they used mooring lines to secure the ship; and fearing to run aground on the banks of Sirte, they dropped the floating anchor and drifted away.
The next day, as we were furiously shaken by the storm, they began to drop the load;
and on the third day, with their own hands, they cast the ship's rigging into the sea.
As neither the sun nor the stars appeared for many days, and a no small storm fell upon us, since then we have abandoned all hope of saving ourselves.
When many days had passed without eating, Paul stood up among them and said: Friends, you should have listened to me and not set sail from Crete, thus avoiding this injury and loss.
But now I urge you to be of good cheer, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
Because tonight an angel of the God of whom I am and whom I serve was in my presence,
saying, "Do not be afraid, Paul; you must appear before Caesar; and behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you."
Therefore, be of good cheer, my friends, because I trust God, that it will happen exactly as I was told.
But we have to run aground on a certain island.
And when the fourteenth night came, while we were drifting in the Adriatic Sea, at about midnight the sailors sensed that they were approaching land.
They put in the probe and found that there were twenty fathoms; passing a little further they took the probe again and found fifteen fathoms deep.
And fearing that somewhere we were going to hit the reefs, they threw four anchors by the stern and longed for the sunrise.
As the sailors were trying to escape from the ship and had lowered the skiff into the sea, under the pretext that they intended to drop anchors from the bow,
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers: If they do not remain on the ship, you cannot be saved.
Then the soldiers cut the mooring lines of the skiff and allowed it to be lost.
And until it was nearly dawn, Paul exhorted everyone to take food, saying: It has been fourteen days now that, constantly watching, they have been fasting, without taking any food.
So I advise you to take food, because this is necessary for your survival; for not a single hair on the head of any of you shall perish.
Having said this, he took bread and thanked God in the presence of all; and breaking it, he began to eat.
Then everyone, having good spirits, also took food.
In total we were two hundred and seventy-six people on the ship.
Once satiated, they lightened the ship by throwing the wheat into the sea.
When daylight came, they did not recognize the land, but could distinguish a bay that had a beach, and decided to launch the ship towards it, if possible.
And cutting the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the mooring lines of the rudders; and hoisting the bow sail into the wind, they headed toward the beach.
But colliding against a reef where two currents meet, they ran aground on the ship; the bow nailed and remained motionless, but the stern was broken by the force of the waves.
And the soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would escape by swimming;
but the centurion, wanting to save Paul, impeded his purpose, and ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and land,
and the others to follow, some on planks, and others on different objects on the ship. And so it happened that all arrived safely on land.
And once they were safe, we found out that the island was called Malta.
And the inhabitants showed us all kinds of attentions, because because of the falling rain and the cold, they lit a bonfire and welcomed us all.
But when Pablo picked up an armful of firewood and threw it into the fire, a viper ran away from the heat and caught it in his hand.
And the inhabitants, seeing the animal hanging from his hand, said to each other: Without a doubt this man is a murderer, because although he was saved from the sea, Justice has not granted him to live.
Pablo, however, shaking his hand, threw the animal into the fire and suffered no harm.
And they expected it to start to swell, or suddenly drop dead. But after waiting for a long time, and not seeing anything abnormal about him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
And near there were some lands that belonged to the main man of the island, whose name was Publius, who received us and hosted us with all kindness for three days.
And it happened that Publio's father lay in bed, sick with fever and dysentery; And Paul went in to see him, and after praying he laid his hands on him and healed him.
When this happened, the other inhabitants of the island who had illnesses came to him and were cured.
They also honored us with many demonstrations of respect, and when we were to set sail, they supplied us with everything necessary.
After three months, we set sail on an Alexandrian ship that had wintered on the island, and which bore the Twin Brothers as its insignia.
When we got to Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
And leaving from there, we follow the coast until we reach Regio. And the next day a south wind came up, and in two days we reached Puteoli.
There we found some brothers, who invited us to stay with them for seven days. And so we come to Rome.
When the brothers heard of our arrival, they came to meet us at the Celery Forum and The Three Taverns; And when Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage.
When we entered Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the military prefect, but Pablo was allowed to live apart, with the soldier guarding him.
And it came to pass that three days later Paul summoned the chiefs of the Jews, and when they were gathered together he said to them: Brothers, having done nothing against our people or against the traditions of our fathers, from Jerusalem I was delivered prisoner into the hands of the Romans,
When they interrogated me, they wanted to release me, as they found no cause to sentence me to death.
But when the Jews objected, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, but not because I had any charge against my people.
Therefore, for this reason I have asked to see and speak to you, because because of the hope of Israel I wear this chain.
And they said to him, We have neither received letters from Judea about you, nor has any brother come here who has reported or spoken anything bad about you.
But we want to hear from you what you teach, because what we know about this sect is that everywhere it is spoken against.
And having fixed a day for him, they came in large numbers to where he was posing, and from morning until evening he explained to them, faithfully testifying of the kingdom of God, and seeking to persuade them of Jesus, both by the law of Moses and by the prophets.
Some were persuaded by what was said, but others did not believe.
And not agreeing with each other, they started to leave after Paul said one last word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak to your parents through Isaiah the prophet,
saying: GO TO THIS PEOPLE AND SAY: "HEARING YOU WILL HEAR, AND YOU WILL NOT UNDERSTAND; AND SEEING, YOU WILL SEE, AND YOU WILL NOT PERCEIVE;
FOR THE HEART OF THIS PEOPLE HAS BECOME INSENSITIVE, AND WITH DIFFICULTY HEAR WITH THEIR EARS; AND HIS EYES HAVE CLOSED; LESS THAN THEY SEE WITH THE EYES, AND HEAR WITH THE EARS, AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND BE CONVERTED, AND I HEAL THEM ".
Know therefore that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They will hear.
And when he had said this, the Jews left, having great discussion with each other.
And Pablo stayed for two whole years in the room he rented, and he received everyone who went to see him,
preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching everything concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all freedom, without hindrance.
When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place.
Suddenly a noise came from the sky like that of a rushing wind that filled the whole house where they were sitting,
and tongues like fire appeared to them and, dividing themselves, they rested on each one of them.
All were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability to express themselves.
And there were Jews who dwelt in Jerusalem, godly men, from every nation under heaven.
And when this roar occurred, the crowd gathered; and they were puzzled because each one heard them speak in their own language.
And they were amazed and amazed, saying: Look, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
How is it that each of us hears them speak in our language in which we were born?
Parthians, Medes and Elamites, inhabitants of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the Libyan regions around Cyrene, travelers from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speak in our languages ​​of the wonders of God.
Everyone was amazed and perplexed, saying to each other: What does this mean?
But others scoffed and said: They are drunk.
Then Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them: Jewish men and all who live in Jerusalem, let this be your knowledge and pay attention to my words,
because these are not drunk as you suppose, because it is hardly the third hour of the day;
but this is what was said through the prophet Joel:
AND IT WILL HAPPEN IN THE LAST DAYS, says God, THAT I WILL SPILL OF MY SPIRIT ON ALL FLESH; AND YOUR CHILDREN AND YOUR DAUGHTERS WILL PROPHETIZE, YOUR YOUNG PEOPLE WILL SEE VISIONS, AND YOUR OLD PEOPLE WILL DREAM DREAMS;
AND EVEN OVER MY SERVANTS AND OVER MY SERVANTS I WILL POUR OUT OF MY SPIRIT IN THOSE DAYS, and they will prophesy.
AND I WILL SHOW WONDERS UP IN THE SKY AND SIGNS DOWN IN THE EARTH: BLOOD, FIRE AND COLUMN OF SMOKE.
THE SUN WILL BECOME DARKNESS AND THE MOON BLOOD, BEFORE THE GREAT AND GLORIOUS DAY OF THE LORD COMES.
AND IT WILL HAPPEN THAT EVERYONE WHO INVOICES THE NAME OF THE LORD WILL BE SAVED.
Listen to these words, Israelite men: Jesus the Nazarene, a man confirmed by God among you with miracles, wonders and signs that God did in your midst through Him, as you yourselves know,
to this, delivered by the predetermined plan and the previous knowledge of God, you nailed a cross by the hands of the wicked and you killed him,
whom God raised from the dead, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was not possible for Him to come under her rule.
Because David says of Him: I ALWAYS SAW THE LORD IN MY PRESENCE; IT IS AT MY RIGHT HAND SO I WILL NOT BE MOVED.
THEREFORE MY HEART WAS GLAD AND MY TONGUE REJOICED; AND EVEN MY FLESH WILL REST IN HOPE;
FOR YOU WILL NOT LEAVE MY SOUL IN HADES, NOR WILL YOU ALLOW YOUR HOLY ONE TO SEE CORRUPTION.
YOU HAVE MADE ME KNOW THE PATHWAYS OF LIFE; YOU WILL FILL ME WITH JOY WITH YOUR PRESENCE.
Brothers, of the Patriarch David I can confidently tell you that he died and was buried, and his grave is with us to this day.
But being a prophet, and knowing that GOD HAD SWORN TO SEAT one OF HIS DESCENDANTS ON HIS THRONE,
He looked to the future and spoke of the resurrection of Christ, who was NOT ABANDONED IN HADES, NOR HIS Flesh SUFFERED CORRUPTION.
This Jesus God raised up, of which all of us are witnesses.
So, exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he has poured out this which you see and hear.
Because David did not ascend to heaven, but he himself says: THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD: "SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND,
UNTIL I PUT YOUR ENEMIES BY THE STRIP OF YOUR FEET. "
So let the whole house of Israel know with certainty that this Jesus whom you crucified, God has made Lord and Christ.
Hearing this, heartbroken, they said to Peter and the other apostles: Brothers, what shall we do?
And Peter said to them: Repent and be baptized each one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Because the promise is for you and your children and for all those who are far away, for as many as the Lord our God calls.
And with many other words he solemnly testified and exhorted them saying: Be saved from this wicked generation.
Then those who had received his word were baptized; and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
And they continually dedicated themselves to the teachings of the apostles, to communion, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer.
Fear ensued to every person; and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
All who had believed were together and had all things in common;
They sold all their properties and assets and shared them with everyone, according to the needs of each one.
Day after day they continued unanimously in the temple and breaking bread in homes, they ate together with joy and simplicity of heart,
praising God and finding favor with all the people. And the Lord added daily to their number those who were being saved.
And one day Peter and John went up to the temple at the ninth hour, that of prayer.
And there was a man, lame from birth, who was brought and put daily to the door of the temple called the Beautiful, to ask alms of those who entered the temple.
This, seeing Peter and John who were going to enter the temple, asked them for alms.
Then Pedro, together with Juan, fixing his eyes on him, said: Look at us!
And he looked at them closely, expecting to receive something from them.
But Pedro said: I do not have silver or gold, but what I have, I give you: in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, come on!
And taking hold of his right hand, he raised it up; instantly her feet and ankles gained strength,
and with a leap he stood up and walked. He entered the temple with them walking, jumping, and praising God.
All the people saw him walk and praise God,
and they recognized that he was the same one who sat at the door of the temple, the Beautiful, begging for alms, and they were filled with wonder and admiration for what had happened to him.
And while he was holding Peter and John, all the people, astonished, ran to the porch called Solomon, where they were.
When Peter saw this, he said to the people, "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this, or why do you look at us like this, as if by our own power or pity we had made him walk?
The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered and repudiated in the presence of Pilate, when he had resolved to set him free.
But you repudiated the Holy and Righteous One, and asked that a murderer be granted you,
and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And by faith in his name, it is the name of Jesus that has strengthened this man whom you see and know; and the faith that comes through him has given him this perfect healing in the presence of all of you.
And now, brothers, I know that you acted out of ignorance, the same as your rulers.
But God has thus fulfilled what he announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets: that his Christ should suffer.
Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshment may come from the presence of the Lord,
and He send Jesus, the Christ appointed beforehand for you,
whom heaven must receive until the day of the restoration of all things, about which God spoke from the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient times.
Moses said: THE LORD GOD WILL RAISE YOU A PROPHET LIKE ME FROM AMONG YOUR BROTHERS; YOU WILL PAY ATTENTION in everything I say.
And it will happen that everyone who does not pay attention to that prophet will be totally destroyed from among the people.
And likewise all the prophets who have spoken from Samuel and his successors onward, also announced these days.
You are the children of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your parents, saying to Abraham: AND IN YOUR SEED ALL THE FAMILIES OF THE EARTH WILL BE BLESSED.
For you in the first place, God, having resurrected his Servant, has sent him to bless you, in order to separate each one of you from your iniquities.
While they were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple guard, and the Sadducees came upon them,
indignant because they taught the people, and announced in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
They got hold of them and put them in jail until the next day, because it was too late.
But many of those who had heard the message believed, reaching the number of men as five thousand.
And it came to pass that the next day their rulers, elders, and scribes met in Jerusalem;
There were the high priest Annas, Caiaphas, John, and Alexander, and all who were of the high priests' lineage.
And having placed them in their midst, they asked them: By what power, or in what name, have you done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: Rulers and elders of the people,
if we are being questioned today because of the benefit done to a sick man, in what way has he been healed,
Know all of you, and all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead, through him, this man is here healthy before you.
This Jesus is the STONE DISCARDED by you THE BUILDERS, BUT HE HAS COME TO BE THE CORNER STONE.
And in no other is there salvation, for there is no other name under heaven given among men, by which we can be saved.
Seeing the confidence of Peter and John, and realizing that they were men without letters and without preparation, they marveled, and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
And seeing the healed man standing next to them, they had nothing to say against it.
But having ordered them to leave the council, they deliberated among themselves,
saying: What shall we do with these men? Because the fact that a remarkable miracle has been performed through them is evident to all who live in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But in order that it may not spread further among the people, let us threaten them so that they will no longer speak to any man in this name.
When they called them, they ordered them not to speak or teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answering, said to them: You yourselves judge whether it is right before God to obey you before God;
because we cannot stop saying what we have seen and heard.
And they, after threatening them again, let them go (not finding a way to punish them) because of the people, because they all glorified God for what had happened;
because the man in whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old.
When they were released, they went to theirs and told them everything that the chief priests and elders had told them.
When they heard this, they unanimously raised their voices to God and said: Oh, Lord, you are the one who MADE HEAVEN AND EARTH, THE SEA AND ALL THAT THERE IS IN THEM,
the one who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said: WHY DID THE GENTILES ENCOURAGE, AND THE PEOPLE MAKE GOOD THINGS?
THE KINGS OF THE EARTH CAME UP, AND THE RULERS GATHERED TOGETHER AGAINST THE LORD AND AGAINST HIS CHRIST.
For truly, in this city both Herod and Pontius Pilate were united, together with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed,
to do whatever your hand and your purpose had predestined to happen.
And now, Lord, consider his threats, and allow your servants to speak your word with all confidence,
as you extend your hand for healing, signs and wonders to be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus.
After they prayed, the place where they were gathered trembled, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with courage.
The congregation of those who believed was of one heart and one soul; and no one claimed that what he possessed was his, but that all things were of common property.
With great power the apostles bore witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all.
So there was no needy among them, because everyone who owned land or houses sold them, brought the price of what was sold,
And they deposited it at the feet of the apostles, and it was distributed to each one according to his need.
And Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles also called Barnabas (which translated means son of consolation),
He owned a field and sold it, and brought the money and deposited it at the feet of the apostles.
But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a property,
and he kept part of the price, his wife also knowing it; and bringing the other part, he placed it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said: Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep part of the price of the land?
While it was unsold, didn't it belong to you? And after it was sold, wasn't it under your power? Why did you conceive this matter in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.
When Ananias heard these words, he fell and expired; and great fear came upon all who knew it.
And the young men got up and covered him, and taking him out, they buried him.
After a lapse of about three hours his wife entered, not knowing what had happened.
And Pedro asked him: Tell me, did you sell the land for as long? And she said: Yes, that was the price.
Then Peter said to him, Why did you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will also take you out.
Instantly she fell at his feet, and expired. When the young men entered, they found her dead, and they took her out and buried her with her husband.
And great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all who knew these things.
By the apostles' hand many signs and wonders were performed among the people; and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
But none of the others dared to join them; however, the people held them in high esteem.
And more and more believers in the Lord, multitudes of men and women, constantly added to their number,
so much so that the sick were still taken out into the streets and laid out on beds and stretchers, so that when Pedro passed, even his shadow would fall on one of them.
Also the people of the cities around Jerusalem came bringing sick and tormented by unclean spirits, and all were healed.
But the high priest, and all who were with him (that is, the sect of the Sadducees), arose with zeal,
and they laid hold of the apostles and put them in a public prison.
But an angel of the Lord, at night, opened the doors of the prison, and taking them out, said:
Go, and stand in the temple, speak to the people the whole message of this Life.
Having heard this, they entered the temple at dawn and taught. When the high priest and those with him arrived, they called the council, that is, the entire senate of the children of Israel, and sent orders to prison to bring them.
But the marshals who went did not find them in prison; So they came back and reported,
saying: We found the prison closed with all security and the guards standing at the doors; but when we open, we find no one inside.
When they heard these words, the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests were very puzzled by them, wondering what would end this.
But someone showed up and informed them: Look, the men you put in jail are in the temple teaching the people.
Then the captain went with the bailiffs and brought them without violence (because they feared the people, lest they be stoned).
When they brought them in, they put them before the council, and the high priest questioned them,
saying: We gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name, and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teachings, and you want to bring upon us the blood of this man.
But Peter and the apostles answering, said: We must obey God before men.
The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you had killed by hanging him on a cross.
He exalted this God at his right hand as Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
And we are witnesses of these things; and also the Holy Spirit, which God has given to those who obey him.
When they heard this, they were deeply offended and wanted to kill them.
But a certain Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, respected by all the people, stood up at the council and ordered that the men be taken out for a moment.
And he said to them: Men of Israel, be careful what you are going to do with these men.
Because some time ago Theudas rose up pretending to be someone; and a group of about four hundred men joined him. And he was killed, and all who followed him were scattered and reduced to nothing.
After him Judas of Galilee arose in the days of the census, and led many people after him; he also perished, and all who followed him scattered.
Therefore, in this case I tell you: have nothing to do with these men and leave them alone, because if this plan or action belongs to men, it will perish;
but if it is from God, you cannot destroy them; lest you find yourselves fighting against God.
They accepted his advice, and after calling the apostles, they flogged them and ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus and released them.
They, therefore, left the council's presence, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer affront to his Name.
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not stop teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ.
In those days, as the number of the disciples multiplied, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews against the native Jews, because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution of food.
Then the twelve called together the congregation of the disciples, and said: It is not convenient for us to neglect the word of God to serve tables.
Therefore, brothers, choose from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, to whom we can entrust this task.
And we will give ourselves to prayer and the ministry of the word.
The proposal had the approval of the entire congregation, and they chose Esteban, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Felipe, Prócoro, Nicanor, Timón, Parmenas and Nicolás, a proselyte from Antioch;
whom they presented before the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them.
And the word of God grew, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and many of the priests obeyed the faith.
And Stephen, full of grace and power, did great wonders and signs among the people.
But some of the synagogue called the Freedmen, including both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and argued with Stephen.
But they could not resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke.
Then they secretly persuaded some men to say: We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God.
And they stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and falling on him, they seized him and brought him before the council.
And they presented false witnesses who said: This man continually speaks against this holy place and the law;
Because we have heard him say that this Nazarene, Jesus, will destroy this place, and will change the traditions that Moses bequeathed to us.
And as they fixed their eyes on him, all who were sitting on the council saw his face as the face of an angel.
And the high priest said: Is this so?
And he said: Listen to me, brothers and parents. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,
and he said to him: "Get out of your land and from your relatives, and go to the land that I will show you."
So he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled in Haran. And from there, after the death of his father, God transferred him to this land where you now live.
He did not give her an inheritance, not even the sole of the foot, and yet, although she had no son, she promised that she would give it to him and his descendants after him.
And God said thus: "That their descendants would be foreigners in a strange land, and that they would be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years.
But I myself will judge any nation of which they are slaves, "said God," and after that they will go forth and serve me in this place. "
And God gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.
And the patriarchs were envious of Joseph and sold him to Egypt. But God was with him,
And he rescued him from all his afflictions, and gave him grace and wisdom before Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he made him ruler over Egypt and over all his house.
Then famine came over all Egypt and Canaan, and with it great affliction; and our parents could not find food.
But when Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our parents there the first time.
On the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Pharaoh learned of Joseph's lineage.
And Joseph, sending a message, sent for Jacob his father and all his relatives, a total of seventy-five people.
And Jacob went down to Egypt, and there he and our parents died.
And from there they were taken to Shechem, and placed in the grave that Abraham had bought for the sum of money from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
But as the time of the promise that God had confirmed to Abraham approached, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
until another king emerged in Egypt who knew nothing of Joseph.
This king, working cunningly against our people, mistreated our parents so that they would expose their children to death so that they would not live.
It was around this time that Moses was born. He was beautiful in God's sight, and he was raised for three months in his father's house.
After being abandoned to die, Pharaoh's daughter took him away and raised him as her own son.
And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was a powerful man in words and deeds.
But when he was about to turn forty, he felt in his heart the desire to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
And when he saw that one of them was treated unfairly, he defended him and avenged the oppressed by killing the Egyptian.
He thought that his brothers understood that God was giving them freedom through him, but they did not understand.
The next day he presented himself to them, when two of them quarreled, and tried to put peace between them, saying: "Men, you are brothers, why did you hurt each other?"
But the one who was hurting his neighbor pushed him, saying: "Who has made you ruler and judge over us?
Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? "
Hearing these words, Moses fled and became a foreigner in the land of Midian, where he was the father of two sons.
And after forty years, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning bush.
Seeing this, Moses marveled at the vision, and as he came closer to see better, the voice of the Lord came to him:
"I am the God of your parents, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." Trembling, Moses did not dare to look.
But the Lord said to him, "Take off your sandals from your feet, because the place where you are is holy ground.
I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt and heard their groans, and have come down to deliver them; Come now and I will send you to Egypt. "
This Moses, whom they rejected, saying: "Who has made you ruler and judge?" it is the same that God sent to be ruler and deliverer with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
This man brought them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the desert for forty years.
This is the same Moses who said to the children of Israel: "God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers."
This is the one who was in the congregation in the desert together with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our parents, and the one who received words of life to transmit them to you;
which our parents did not want to obey, but they repudiated him, and in their hearts they returned to Egypt,
saying to Aaron: "Make us gods that go before us, because we do not know what happened to this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt."
In those days they made a calf and offered sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of his hands.
But God turned away from them and gave them up to serve the army of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets: Was it you who offered victims and sacrifices in the desert for forty years, house of Israel?
You also brought the tabernacle of Moloc, and the star of the god Rentan, the images you made to worship them. I will also deport you beyond Babylon.
Our parents had the tabernacle of the testimony in the desert, just as the one who spoke to Moses had commanded it to do, according to the pattern he had seen.
In turn, having received it, our parents introduced it with Joshua when he took possession of the nations that God threw out from before our parents, until the days of David.
And David found grace before God, and asked the favor of finding a dwelling for the God of Jacob.
But it was Solomon who built him a house.
However, the Most High does not live in houses made by human hands; as the prophet says:
Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool; What house will you build me? Says the Lord, "Or what is the place of my rest?
Wasn't it my hand that did all these things?
You who are stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, always resist the Holy Spirit; As your parents did, so you also do.
Which of the prophets did your parents not persecute? They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the Just, of whom you now became traitors and murderers;
you who received the law by order of angels and yet did not keep it.
Hearing this, they were deeply offended, and gnashed their teeth against him.
But Stephen, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixing his eyes on heaven, saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God;
And he said: Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God.
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and covering their ears they rushed one against him.
And throwing him out of the city, they began to stone him; and the witnesses put their cloaks at the feet of a young man named Saul.
And while they stoned Esteban, he invoked the Lord and said: Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
And falling to his knees, he cried aloud: Lord, do not take this sin into account. Having said this, he slept.
And Saul was in complete agreement with them in his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem, and all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And some godly men buried Stephen, and wept with a loud voice for him.
But Saul ravaged the church by going from house to house, and dragging men and women, he threw them in jail.
So those who had been scattered were preaching the word.
Philip, descending to the city of Samaria, preached Christ to them.
And the unanimous crowds paid attention to what Philip said, hearing and seeing the signs he did.
Because of many who had unclean spirits, these came out of them screaming with a loud voice; and many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed.
And there was great rejoicing in that city.
And a certain man named Simon, had long been exercising magic in the city and astonishing the people of Samaria, pretending to be a great character;
and everyone, from the youngest to the oldest, paid attention to him, saying: This is the one called the Great Power of God.
They paid attention to him because he had long amazed them with his magical arts.
But when they believed Philip, who announced the good news of the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized.
And even Simon himself believed; and after being baptized, he continued with Philip, and was astonished to see the signs and the great miracles that were performed.
When the apostles who were in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John,
who came down and prayed for them to receive the Holy Ghost,
for he had not yet descended upon any of them; they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
When Simon saw that the Spirit was given by the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,
saying: Give me also this authority, so that everyone on whom I lay my hands receives the Holy Spirit.
Then Peter said to him: May your silver perish with you, because you thought that you could obtain the gift of God with money.
You have no part or luck in this matter, because your heart is not right before God.
Therefore, repent of this your wickedness, and pray to the Lord that if possible you will forgive the intent of your heart.
Because I see that you are on the gall of bitterness and on the chain of iniquity.
But Simon answered and said: Pray to the Lord for me, so that nothing you have said may come upon me.
And they, having solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, began their return to Jerusalem by proclaiming the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. (This is a desert road.)
He got up and went; and behold, there was an Ethiopian eunuch, high officer of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasures, and had come to Jerusalem to worship.
He would return sitting in his carriage, and read the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip: Go and join that carriage.
When Philip came running, he heard the prophet Isaiah read, and said to him: Do you understand what you read?
And he answered: How can I, unless someone guides me? And he invited Felipe to come up and sit with him.
The Scripture passage I was reading was this: AS A SHEEP HE WAS TAKEN TO THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE; AND AS A LAMB, DUMP IN FRONT OF THE ONE WHO RIDES IT, HE DOES NOT OPEN HIS MOUTH.
IN HIS HUMBLING NO JUSTICE WAS DONE; WHO WILL COUNT YOUR GENERATION? BECAUSE YOUR LIFE IS REMOVED FROM THE EARTH.
The eunuch answered Philip and said: Please tell me, whose prophet is this saying? From yourself, or from someone else?
Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, he announced the gospel of Jesus to him.
Going down the road, they came to a place where there was water; And the eunuch said *: Look, water. What prevents me from being baptized?
And Felipe said: If you believe with all your heart, you can. He answered and said: I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he ordered the carriage to stop; both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and baptized him.
As they came out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away; and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip met in Azoto, and wherever he passed, he announced the gospel in all the cities, until he reached Caesarea.
Saul, still breathing threats and death against the Lord's disciples, went to the high priest,
and he asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found some that belonged to the Way, both men and women, he could take them tied to Jerusalem.
And it happened that as he traveled, as he approached Damascus, suddenly a light from heaven shone around him;
and when he fell to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him: Saulo, Saulo, why are you persecuting me?
And he said: Who are you, Lord? And He answered: I am Jesus whom you persecute;
Arise, enter the city, and you will be told what to do.
The men who were with him stopped, stunned, hearing the voice, but seeing no one.
Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw nothing; And taking him by the hand, they brought him to Damascus.
And he was three days without seeing, and he neither ate nor drank.
There was in Damascus a certain disciple named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision: Ananias. And he said, Here am I, Lord.
And the Lord said to him: Get up and go to the street called Right, and ask in the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul, because, behold, he is praying,
and she has seen in a vision a man named Ananias, who enters and lays his hands on him so that he may recover his sight.
But Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to your saints in Jerusalem,
and here he has the authority of the chief priests to apprehend all who call on your name.
But the Lord said to him: Go, because he is a chosen instrument for me, to bear my name in the presence of the Gentiles, the kings and the children of Israel;
because I will show you how much you must suffer for my name.
Ananias went and entered the house, and after laying his hands on him, he said: Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road where you were coming, has sent me to recover your sight and be filled with the Spirit Holy.
Instantly, scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight; and he got up and was baptized.
He took food and gained strength. And for several days he was with the disciples who were in Damascus.
And immediately he began to preach Jesus in the synagogues, saying: He is the Son of God.
And all who listened to him were amazed and said: Is not this the one who in Jerusalem destroyed those who called on this name, and the one who had come here for this purpose: to bring them bound before the chief priests?
But Saul continued to strengthen and confuse the Jews who lived in Damascus, demonstrating that this Jesus is the Christ.
After many days, the Jews plotted to get rid of him,
but his conspiracy came to the knowledge of Saul. And they even guarded the doors day and night with the purpose of killing him;
but his disciples took him at night and took him out through an opening in the wall, lowering him into a basket.
When he arrived in Jerusalem, he was trying to join the disciples; and everyone feared him, not believing that he was a disciple.
But Barnabas took it and presented it to the apostles, and told them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them moving freely in Jerusalem, speaking courageously in the name of the Lord.
He also spoke and argued with Hellenistic Jews; but these tried to kill him.
But when the brothers suppressed them, they took him to Caesarea, and from there they sent him to Tarsus.
Meanwhile the church enjoyed peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and was built; and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the strength of the Holy Spirit, he kept growing.
And while Peter traveled through all those regions, he also came to the saints who lived in Lida.
There she found a man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years because he was paralyzed.
And Peter said to him: Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; get up and make your bed. And instantly he got up.
All who lived in Lida and in Sharon saw it, and were converted to the Lord.
There was then at Joppa a disciple named Tabitha (who translated into Greek is Dorcas); This woman was rich in good works and charity that she did continuously.
And it came to pass that in those days he became ill and died; and washed his body, they put him in a high room.
As Lida was close to Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent him two men, pleading with him: Do not delay in coming to us.
Then Peter got up and went with them. When he arrived, they took him to the upper room, and all the widows surrounded him crying, showing all the robes and clothes that Dorcas used to make when he was with them.
But Peter, bringing everyone out, knelt down and prayed, and turning to the corpse, said: Tabitha, get up. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Pedro, she sat up.
And he gave her his hand and raised her up; and calling the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
And this was known in all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
And Peter stayed in Joppa many days with a certain Simon, tanner.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but ascends elsewhere, is a thief and a robber.
But the one who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To this the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; He calls his sheep by name and leads them outside.
When he takes out all his, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
But they will not follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
Jesus spoke to them through this allegory, but they did not understand what He was saying.
Then Jesus said to them again, "Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep ignored them.
I am the door; if anyone enters through me, he will be saved; and he will go in and out and find grass.
The thief only comes to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd; The good shepherd gives his life to the sheep.
But he who is a wage earner and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and abandons the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches and scatters them.
He runs away because he only works for the payment and he doesn't care about the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep and mine know me,
just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep.
I have other sheep that are not of this fold; I also need to bring those, and they will hear my voice, and they will be a flock with only one shepherd.
That is why the Father loves me, because I give my life to take it again.
No one takes it from me, but I give it of my own free will. I have authority to give it, and I have authority to take it again. This commandment I received from my Father.
A division was again raised among the Jews by these words.
And many of them said: He has a demon and he is crazy. Why do you listen to him?
Others said: These are not the words of a demoniac. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
In those days the Feast of Dedication was celebrated in Jerusalem.
It was winter, and Jesus was walking through the temple on Solomon's porch.
Then the Jews surrounded him, and said to him: How long are you going to keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us clearly.
Jesus answered them: I have told you, and you do not believe; the works that I do in the name of my Father, these bear witness to me.
But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them and they follow me;
and I give them eternal life and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
My Father who gave them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from the Father's hand.
I and the Father are one.
The Jews again took stones to stone him.
Jesus said to them: I have shown you many good works that are from the Father. for who of them do you stone at me?
The Jews answered him: We do not stone you for any good deed, but for blasphemy; and because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Jesus answered them: Is it not written in your law: "I SAID: YOU ARE GODS"?
If those, to whom the word of God came, were called gods (and Scripture cannot be violated),
Who did the Father sanctify and send into the world, you say: "Blasphemers", because I said: "I am the Son of God"?
If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me;
but if I do them, even if you don't believe me, believe the works; so that you know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father.
So they tried again to seize him, but it escaped from their hands.
He went back across the Jordan, to the place where John had first been baptizing, and stayed there.
And many came to Him and said: Although John made no sign, yet all that John said of this was true.
And many believed in him there.
And a certain man named Lazarus, from Bethany, the village of Mary and his sister Martha, was sick.
Mary, whose brother Lazarus was ill, was the one who anointed the Lord with perfume and dried his feet with his hair.
The sisters then sent Jesus to say: Lord, look, the one you love is sick.
When Jesus heard it, he said: This disease is not for death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
And Jesus loved Martha, her sister, and Lazarus.
When he heard that Lazarus was sick, then he stayed two more days in the place where he was.
Then after this he said * to his disciples: Let's go back to Judea.
The disciples * said to him, "Rabbi, recently the Jews were trying to stone you, and are you going there again?"
Jesus replied: Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks during the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
But if anyone walks at night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
He said this, and after this he added: Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I'm going to wake him up.
The disciples then said to him: Lord, if you have fallen asleep, you will recover.
But Jesus had spoken of the death of Lazarus, but they believed that he was speaking literally of the dream.
So Jesus therefore said clearly to them: Lazarus is dead;
and for your sakes I am glad I was not there, that you may believe; but let's go to where he is.
Thomas, called Didymus, then said to his fellow disciples: We too are going to die with Him.
So Jesus came and found that he had been in the tomb for four days.
Bethany was near Jerusalem, about three kilometers;
and many of the Jews had come to the house of Martha and Mary, to console them for the death of their brother.
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet her, but Mary remained at home.
And Martha said to Jesus: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
Even now, I know that whatever you ask of God, God will grant it to you.
Jesus said to him *: Your brother will rise again.
Martha answered him *: I know that he will rise in the resurrection, in the last day.
Jesus said to him: I am the resurrection and the life; He who believes in me, even if he dies, will live,
and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this
She said to him *: Yes, Lord; I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who comes into the world.
And having said this, he went and called his sister Maria, secretly saying: The Master is here, and he calls you.
As soon as she heard it, she quickly got up * and went to Him.
For Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha had found him.
So when the Jews who were with her in the house comforting her, when they saw that Mary got up quickly and left, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to cry there.
When Mary came to where Jesus was, when she saw him, she threw herself at his feet, saying to him: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
And when Jesus saw her crying, and the Jews who came with her crying too, he was deeply moved in the spirit, and was saddened,
and said: Where did you put it? They said to him, "Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
So the Jews said: Look how she loved him.
But some of them said: Couldn't this man, who opened the blind man's eyes, also have prevented Lazarus from dying?
Then Jesus, again deeply moved within, went * to the grave. It was a cave, and it had a stone placed on it.
Jesus said *: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the one who had died, said to him: "Sir, it already stinks, because he died four days ago."
Jesus said to him *: Did I not tell you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God?
Then they removed the stone. Jesus lifted up his eyes and said: Father, I thank you because you heard me.
I knew you always hear me; But I said it because of the crowd around me, so that they believe that you have sent me.
Having said this, he cried out with a loud voice: Lazarus, come outside!
And the dead man came out, his feet and hands bound with bandages, and his face wrapped in a shroud. Jesus said to them *: Loose him, and let him go.
This is why many of the Jews who had come to see Mary, and saw what Jesus had done, believed in Him.
But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees called a council, and said: What do we do? Because this man does many signs.
If we let him continue like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation.
But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them: You don't know anything,
nor do you bear in mind that it is more convenient for you that a man die for the people, and not that the whole nation perish.
Now, he did not say this on his own initiative, but being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation;
and not only for the nation, but also to reunite in one the scattered children of God.
So from that day on they planned each other to kill him.
So Jesus was no longer publicly walking among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the desert, to a city called Ephraim; and he stayed there with the disciples.
And the Jews' Passover was at hand, and many from the region went up to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves.
So they looked for Jesus, and while they were in the temple, they said to each other: What do you think? Who won't come to the party?
And the chief priests and Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where Jesus was, he should give notice to arrest him.
Then Jesus, six days before Easter, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
And they made him a dinner there, and Marta served; but Lazarus was one of those who were at the table with Him.
Then Mary, taking a pound of perfume of pure tuberose that cost a lot, anointed the feet of Jesus, and dried them with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
And Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, the one who was going to deliver him, said *:
Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
But he said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and since he had the money bag, he stole from what was put into it.
Then Jesus said, "Leave her alone, that I may save her for the day of my burial."
Because you will always have the poor with you; but you won't always have me.
Then the great multitude of Jews found out that Jesus was there; and they came not only because of Jesus, but also because of seeing Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
But the main priests resolved to kill Lazarus as well;
because because of him many of the Jews turned away and believed in Jesus.
The next day, when the large crowd that had come to the party, heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
they took leaves from the palms and came out to meet him, and they shouted: Hosanna! BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD, the King of Israel.
Jesus, finding a donkey, got on it; as it is written:
FEAR NOT, DAUGHTER OF SION; BEHOLD, YOUR KING IS COMING, RIDING ON AN ASS'S CHICK.
His disciples did not understand this at first, but later, when Jesus was glorified, they then remembered that this had been written about Him, and that they had done these things to Him.
And so the crowd that was with Him when he called Lazarus from the grave and raised him from the dead, bore witness to Him.
So the crowd also came to receive Him, because they had heard that He had made this sign.
So the Pharisees said to each other: Do you see that you achieve nothing? Look, everyone has gone after Him.
And there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the party;
These, then, went to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying: Lord, we want to see Jesus.
Felipe went * and told * Andrés; Andrew and Philip went * and told * Jesus.
Jesus answered them *, saying: The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Truly, truly, I tell you that if the grain of wheat does not fall to the ground and die, it remains alone; but if it dies, it produces much fruit.
He who loves his life loses it; and he who hates his life in this world will preserve it for eternal life.
If anyone serves me, let him follow me; And where I am, there will also be my server; if anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
Now my soul has been distressed; And what shall I say: "Father, save me from this hour"? But for this I have come to this hour.
Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven: And I have glorified him, and again I will glorify him.
So the crowd that was there and heard it said that it had been thunder; others said: An angel has spoken to him.
Jesus answered and said: This voice has not come because of me, but because of you.
The judgment of this world is here; now the prince of this world will be cast out.
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw everyone to myself.
But He said this to indicate what kind of death He was going to die of.
Then the crowd answered him: We have heard in the law that the Christ will remain forever; And how do you say: "The Son of Man has to be lifted up?" Who is this Son of Man?
Jesus then said to them: Still, for a little while, the light will be among you. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness does not surprise you; he who walks in the dark does not know where he is going.
While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may be children of the light. These things Jesus spoke, and went away and hid himself from them.
But even though he had made so many signs before them, they did not believe in him,
so that the word of the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, who said: LORD, WHO HAD BELIEVED OUR ADVERTISEMENT? AND TO WHOM HAS THE LORD'S ARM BEEN REVEALED?
So they could not believe, because Isaiah also said:
HE HAS BLINDED HIS EYES AND HARDENED HIS HEART, SO THAT THEY DO NOT SEE WITH THE EYES AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND THEY ARE CONVERTED AND I HEAL THEM.
This Isaiah said because he saw his glory, and spoke of Him.
However, many, even of the rulers, believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so as not to be expelled from the synagogue.
Because they loved the recognition of men more than the recognition of God.
Jesus exclaimed and said: He who believes in me does not believe in me, but in him who sent me.
And he who sees me sees him who sent me.
I, the light, have come into the world, so that everyone who believes in me does not remain in darkness.
If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; because I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
He who rejects me and does not receive my words has someone to judge him; the word that I have spoken, that will judge in the final day.
Because I have not spoken on my own, but the Father himself who has sent me has given me a commandment on what to say and what to speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life; therefore what I speak, I speak just as the Father has told me.
Before the Passover feast, Jesus knowing that his hour had come to pass from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
And during dinner, as the devil had already placed in the heart of Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, the one who delivered him,
Jesus, knowing that the Father had put all things in his hands, and that he had come from God and was returning to God,
He * got up * from dinner and took off * his cloak, and taking a towel, he put it on.
Then he poured * water into a bowl, and began to wash the disciples' feet and wipe them dry with the towel that he had on.
Then he * came to Simon Peter. He said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him, Now you do not understand what I am doing, but you will understand later.
Pedro replied *: You will never wash my feet! Jesus answered him: If I do not wash you, you have no part with me.
Simon Peter said to him *: Lord, then not only the feet, but also the hands and the head.
Jesus said to him *: He who has bathed does not need to wash himself, except his feet, because everything is clean; and you are clean, but not all.
Because he knew who was going to deliver him; therefore he said: Not all of you are clean.
Then, when he finished washing their feet, he took up his cloak, and sitting down at the table again, he said to them: Do you know what I have done to you?
You call me Master and Lord; And you are right, because I am.
For if I, the Lord and the Master, washed your feet, you must also wash each other's feet.
For I have given you an example, so that as I have done to you, you also may do.
Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is an envoy greater than the one who sent him.
If you know this, you will be happy if you practice it.
I'm not talking about all of you; I know the ones I have chosen; but it is so that the Scripture is fulfilled: "THE ONE WHO EATS MY BREAD HAS RAISED HIS HEAT AGAINST ME."
I tell you from now on, before it happens, so that when it happens, you will believe that I am.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
Jesus having said this, he was distressed in spirit, and testified and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.
The disciples looked at each other, and were puzzled without knowing who they were talking about.
One of his disciples, the one Jesus loved, was reclining at the table on Jesus' chest.
So Simon Peter * beckoned to him and said *: Tell us who he is talking about.
Leaning back on Jesus' chest, he said to him, "Lord, who is it?
Then Jesus answered *: It is he to whom I will give the bite that I am going to dip. And after wetting the mouthful, he took it * and gave it * to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
And after the bite, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him *: What you are going to do, do it soon.
But none of those sitting at the table understood why he said this.
Because some thought that since Judas had the money bag, Jesus said to him: Buy what we need for the party, or to give something to the poor.
And Judas, after receiving the morsel, immediately went out; and it was already night.
Then when he came out, Jesus said *: Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in Him.
If God is glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him at once.
Little children, I will be with you a little longer. You will look for me, and as I said to the Jews, now I also say to you: where I am going, you cannot go.
I give you a new commandment: love one another; that as I have loved you, so also love one another.
In this they will all know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.
Simon Peter said to him *: Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied: Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow me later.
Peter said to him *: Lord, why can't I follow you right now? I will give my life for you!
Jesus answered him *: Will you give your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow without you denying me three times before.
Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house there are many dwellings; if it were not so, I would have told you; because I'm going to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you with me; so that where I am, you are also there.
And you know the way where I am going.
Thomas said to him *: Lord, if we don't know where you are going, how are we going to know the way?
Jesus said to him *: I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father except through me.
If you had known me, you would also have known my Father; from now on you know him and have seen him.
Philip * said to him: Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him *: Have I been with you for so long, and you still don't know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; How do you say: "Show us the Father"?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own, but the Father who lives in me is the one who does the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and if not, believe for the works themselves.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do he will do also; and even greater than these will he do, because I go to the Father.
And whatever you ask in my name, I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask me for something in my name, I will do it.
If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
And I will pray to the Father, and He will give you another Comforter to be with you forever;
that is, the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees nor knows him, but you do know him because he dwells with you and will be in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I will come to you.
A little more time and the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me; Because I live, you will also live.
On that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
He who has my commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves me; and he who loves me will be loved by my Father; and I will love him and manifest myself to him.
Judas (not the Iscariot) said to him *: Lord, and what happened that you are going to manifest yourself to us and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him: If anyone loves me, he will keep my word; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our abode with him.
He who does not love me does not keep my words; And the word you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me.
These things I have said to you, being with you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything I have told you.
Peace I leave you, my peace I give you; I do not give it to you as the world gives it. Not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
You heard that I said to you: "I am going away, and I will come to you". If you loved me, you would rejoice because I go to the Father, since the Father is older than me.
And I have told you now, before it happens, so that when it happens, you believe.
I will not speak much more with you, because the prince of this world comes, and he has nothing in me;
but so that the world knows that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, so I do. Get up, let's get out of here.
I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine grower.
Every branch that does not bear fruit in me, he takes away; and everyone who bears fruit prunes it so that it bears more fruit.
You are already clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.
Stay in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself if it does not remain in the vine, neither can you if you do not remain in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches; He who abides in me and I in him, he bears much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing.
If anyone does not remain in me, he is thrown out like a branch and dries up; and they pick them up, throw them into the fire and burn.
If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask what you want and it will be done for you.
In this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and thus you prove that you are my disciples.
As the Father has loved me, so I have also loved you; remain in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and remain in his love.
These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy is in you, and your joy is perfect.
This is my commandment: love one another, just as I have loved you.
No one has a greater love than this: that one give his life for his friends.
You are my friends if you do what I command you.
I no longer call you servants, because the servant does not know what his master is doing; But I have called you friends, because I have made known to you all that I have heard from my Father.
You did not choose me, but I chose you, and I appointed you to go and bear fruit, and that your fruit remain; so that whatever you ask the Father in my name he may grant you.
This I command you: to love one another.
If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before you.
If you were of the world, the world would love its own; but since you are not of the world, but I chose you from the world, that is why the world hates you.
Remember the word that I said to you: "A servant is not greater than his master." If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
But all this they will do to you because of my name, because they do not know the one who sent me.
If I had not come and not spoken to you, you would have no sin, but now you have no excuse for your sin.
He who hates me also hates my Father.
If I had not done among them the works that no one else has done, they would have no sin; but now they have seen them, and they have hated me and also my Father.
But they have done this to enforce the word that is written in their law: "They hated me without cause."
When the Comforter comes, whom I will send from the Father, that is, the Spirit of truth that proceeds from the Father, He will give testimony of me,
and you will also bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.
I have told you these things so that you will not stumble.
You will be expelled from the synagogues; but the hour is coming when anyone who kills you will think that in this way they render a service to God.
And they will do these things because they have known neither the Father nor me.
But I have told you these things so that when the time comes, you will remember that I had already spoken about them. And I didn't tell you these things at first, because I was with you.
But now I am going to the one who sent me, and none of you asks me: "Where are you going?"
But because I have told you these things, sadness has filled your heart.
But I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away; because if I do not go, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go, I will send it to you.
And when He comes, He will convince the world of sin, of justice and of judgment;
of sin, because they don't believe in me;
of justice, because I go to the Father and you will see me no more;
and of judgment, because the prince of this world has been judged.
I still have many things to tell you, but now you cannot bear them.
But when He, the Spirit of truth, comes, He will guide you into all the truth, because He will not speak on His own, but will speak everything He hears, and He will tell you what is to come.
He will glorify me, because he will take what is mine and make it known to you.
Everything the Father has is mine; That is why I said that He takes what is mine and will make it known to you.
A little more, and you will no longer see me; and again a little, and you will see me.
Then some of his disciples said to each other: What is this that says to us: "A little more, and you will not see me, and again a little, and you will see me" and "Because I am going to the Father"?
So they said: What is this that says: "A little"? We do not know what he is talking about.
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them: Are you arguing among yourselves about this, because I said: "A little more, and you will not see me, and again a little, and you will see me"?
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; You will be sad, but your sadness will become joy.
When the woman is about to give birth, she is in distress, because her time has come; but when she gives birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, for the joy that a child was born in the world.
Therefore now you also have sorrow; But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy.
On that day you will not ask me anything. Truly, truly, I say to you: if you ask the Father for something, he will give it to you in my name.
Until now you have asked nothing in my name; ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be complete.
These things I have spoken to you in figurative language; The time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figurative language, but I will speak to you of the Father clearly.
On that day you will ask in my name, and I do not tell you that I will pray to the Father for you,
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and believed that I came from the Father.
I left the Father and have come into the world; again, I leave the world and go to the Father.
His disciples * said to him, "Behold, now you speak clearly and do not use figurative language.
Now we understand that you know all things, and you don't need anyone to ask you; This is why we believe that you came from God.
Jesus answered them: Now do you believe?
Look, the hour is coming, and it has already come, in which you will be scattered, each one on his own, and you will leave me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
These things I have spoken to you so that in me you have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but trust me, I have overcome the world.
These things Jesus spoke, and lifting his eyes to heaven, he said: Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son, so that the Son glorifies you,
because you gave authority over every human being to give eternal life to all those that you have given him.
And this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.
I glorified you on earth, having finished the work you gave me to do.
And now, glorify me, Father, with you, with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.
I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me from the world; They were yours and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
Now they have known that everything you have given me comes from you;
because I have given them the words that you gave me; And they received them, and they understood that I really came out of you, and they believed that you sent me.
I pray for them; I do not pray for the world, but for those you have given me; because they are yours;
and all mine is yours, and yours is mine; and I have been glorified in them.
I'm not in the world anymore, but they are in the world, and I'm going to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name that you have given me, so that they may be one, just like us.
When I was with them, I kept them in your name, the name you gave me; and I kept them and none was lost, except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled.
But now I come to you; and I speak this in the world so that you have my complete joy in yourself.
I have given you your word and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in truth; Your word is truth.
As you sent me into the world, I have also sent them into the world.
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified through the truth.
But I do not pray only for these, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,
so that they are all one. As you, Father, are in me and I in you, may they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me.
The glory that you gave me I have given them, so that they are one, just as we are one:
I in them, and you in me, so that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world knows that you sent me, and that you loved them just as you have loved me.
Father, I want those whom you have given me to be with me where I am also, so that they may see my glory, the glory that you have given me; because you have loved me since before the foundation of the world.
Oh fair Father, although the world has not known you, I have known you, and these have known that you sent me.
I have made your name known to them, and I will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me is in them and I in them.
After saying this, Jesus went out with his disciples to the other side of the Kidron stream, where there was a garden where he entered with his disciples.
Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, also knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples.
Then Judas, taking the Roman cohort, and several bailiffs of the chief priests and of the Pharisees, went there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.
So Jesus, knowing all that was to come to him, went out and said to them, * Who are you looking for?
They answered him: Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them *: I am. And Judas, the betrayer, was with them.
And when He said to them: I am, they fell back and fell to the ground.
Jesus then asked them again: Who are you looking for? And they said: Jesus the Nazarene.
Jesus answered: I have told you that I am; therefore, if you seek me, let these go;
so that the word he had said would be fulfilled: Of those you gave me, I did not lose any.
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, took it out and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant was called Malco.
Jesus then said to Peter: Put the sword in the scabbard. The cup that the Father has given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the Roman cohort, the commander and the bailiffs of the Jews seized Jesus and tied him,
and they brought him first before Annas, because he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
And Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that a man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and also another disciple. This disciple was known to the high priest, and he entered the high priest's courtyard with Jesus,
but Pedro was outside, at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the caretaker, and brought Peter in.
Then the maid who guarded the door * said to Peter: Are you not also one of this man's disciples? And he said *: I am not.
And the servants and the bailiffs were standing warming themselves next to some embers that they had lit because it was cold; and Peter was also standing with them and warming up.
Then the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teachings.
Jesus replied: I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather, and I have never spoken in secret.
Why are you asking me? Ask those who have heard what I spoke; behold, they know what I have said.
When he said this, one of the sheriffs nearby was slapping Jesus, saying: Is this how you respond to the high priest?
Jesus answered him: If I have spoken badly, testify of what I have spoken badly; But if I spoke well, why did you hit me?
Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
Simon Peter was standing, warming himself up; Then they said to him, Are you not also one of his disciples? He denied it and said: I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, who was a relative of the one to whom Peter had cut off his ear, said *: Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
And Peter denied it again, and instantly a rooster crowed.
So they * brought Jesus from Caiaphas' house to the Praetorium. It was very morning. And they did not enter the Praetorium to avoid contamination and to eat the Passover.
Pilate then went out to them and said *: What accusation do you bring against this man?
They answered and said to him: If this man were not a criminal, we would not have handed him over to you.
Then Pilate said to them, Take him away, and judge him according to your law. The Jews said to him: We are not allowed to kill anyone.
So that the word that Jesus had spoken would be fulfilled, implying what kind of death he was going to die.
Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, and called Jesus and said to him: Are you the King of the Jews?
Jesus replied: Do you say this on your own, or because others have told you about me?
Pilate answered: Am I a Jew? Your nation and the chief priests gave you to me. What have you done
Jesus replied: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would fight so that I would not be delivered to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not from here.
Pilate then said to him: So you are king? Jesus replied: You say that I am a king. For this I was born and for this I have come into the world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.
Pilate asked him *: What is truth? And having said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them *: I find no crime in Him.
But it is the custom among you that I release one to you at Easter. Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Then they shouted again, saying: Not to this one, but to Barabbas. And Barabbas was a thief.
So Pilate then took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and clothed him in a purple robe;
And approaching Him, they said to him: Hail, King of the Jews! And they slapped him.
Pilate came out again, and said to them *: Look, I will bring him outside to you, so that you know that I find no crime in Him.
Jesus then went outside wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. And Pilate * said to them: Behold the Man!
Then, when the chief priests and the bailiffs saw him, they cried out, saying: Crucify him! Crucify Him! Pilate * said to them, "Take him and crucify him, for I find no crime in him.
The Jews answered him: We have a law, and according to that law He must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God.
Then Pilate, when he heard these words, was even more frightened.
He entered the Praetorium again and said * to Jesus: Where are you from? But Jesus did not give an answer.
Pilate then said to him, "Do you not speak to me? Don't you know that I have authority to release you, and that I have authority to crucify you?
Jesus replied: You would have no authority over me if it had not been given to you from above; So he who gave me to you has greater sin.
As a result of this, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying: If you release this man, you are not a friend of Caesar; everyone who becomes king opposes Caesar.
Then Pilate, when he heard these words, took Jesus out and sat in the court, in a place called the Cobblestone, and in Hebrew Gabata.
And it was the day of preparation for Easter; It was about the sixth hour. And Pilate * said to the Jews: Behold your King.
Then they shouted: Get out! Outside! Crucify Him! Pilate * said to them: Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests replied: We have no king but Caesar.
So then he handed him over to be crucified.
So they took Jesus, and He went out carrying his cross to the place called the Place of the Skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha,
where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side and Jesus in the middle.
Pilate also wrote a sign and put it on the cross. And it was written: JESUS ​​THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then many Jews read this inscription, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek.
So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Do not write, "the King of the Jews"; but He said, "I am the King of the Jews."
Pilate replied: What I have written I have written.
So the soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, took their clothes and made four parts, one part for each soldier. And they also took the robe; and the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece.
Therefore they said to one another: Let us not break it; if not we cast lots on it, to green who will be; so that the Scripture could be fulfilled: THEY DISTRIBUTED BETWEEN MY DRESSES, AND THROUGH MY CLOTHES THERE WERE LUCKY.
So the soldiers did this. And next to the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.
And when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said * to his mother: Woman, behold, your son!
Then he * said to the disciple: Behold your mother! And from that hour the disciple received her in his own house.
After this, Jesus knowing that everything had already been consummated, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, said *: I am thirsty.
There was a jar full of vinegar there; So they placed a sponge soaked in the vinegar on a hyssop branch and brought it to his mouth.
Then Jesus, when he had taken the vinegar, said: It is finished! And bowing his head he gave up his spirit.
The Jews then, as it was the day of preparation for Passover, so that the bodies did not stay on the cross on the Sabbath (because that Sabbath was very solemn), asked Pilate to break their legs and they will take them away.
So the soldiers went and broke the legs of the first, and also those of the other who had been crucified with Jesus;
but when they came to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs;
but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
And he who has seen it has testified, and his testimony is true; and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you too may believe.
Because this happened so that the Scripture was fulfilled: YOUR BONE WILL NOT BE BROKEN.
And also another Scripture says: THEY WILL LOOK AT THE ONE THAT THEY PASSED.
After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, although secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate for permission to take the body of Jesus. And Pilate granted permission. So he came and took the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus, the one who had come to Jesus before at night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloe about a hundred pounds.
Then they took the body of Jesus, and wrapped it in linen cloth with the aromatic spices, as it is customary to bury among the Jews.
In the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new grave, in which no one had yet been buried.
Therefore, because of the day of the preparation of the Jews, since the tomb was near, they put Jesus there.
In the beginning there was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing that was made was made.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not understand it.
A man sent by God, whose name was John, came into the world.
He came as a witness, to testify of the light, so that all would believe through him.
He was not the light, but came to bear witness to the light.
There was the true light that, when coming into the world, illuminates every man.
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him.
He came to his own, and his own did not receive him.
But to all who received him, he gave the right to become children of God, that is, those who believe in his name,
that they were not born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
John gave testimony of Him and cried out, saying: This was the one of whom I said: "He who comes after me is before me, because he was before me."
For of its fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace.
Because the law was given through Moses; grace and truth were made real through Jesus Christ.
No one has ever seen God; the only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has made him known.
This is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: Who are you?
And he confessed and did not deny; confessed: I am not the Christ.
And they asked him: So what? Are you Elijah? And he said *: I am not. Are you the prophet And he answered: No.
Then they said to him: Who are you ?, so that we can give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?
He said: I am THE VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "STRAIGHTEN THE WAY OF THE LORD," as the prophet Isaiah said.
Those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said to him: Then why do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?
John answered them, saying: I baptize in water, but among you is One whom you do not know.
He is the one who comes after me, whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his sandal.
These things happened in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day he saw * Jesus coming towards him, and said *: Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
This is the one about whom I said: "After me comes a man who is before me because he was before me."
And I did not know Him, but for Him to be manifested to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
John also bore testimony, saying: I have seen the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and fell upon Him.
And I did not know him, but the one who sent me to baptize in water told me: "He on whom you see the Spirit descend and settle on Him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit."
And I have seen and testified to him that this is the Son of God.
The next day John was there again with two of his disciples,
and he saw Jesus passing by, and said *: Behold the Lamb of God.
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
Jesus turned and, seeing that they were following him, said to them, "What are you looking for? And they said to him: Rabbi (which translated means, Master), where are you staying?
He said to them *: Come and you will see. Then they went and saw where he was staying; and they stayed with him that day, because it was like the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard John and followed Jesus was Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter.
He first * found his brother Simon, and said to him *: We have found the Messiah (which translated means Christ).
Then he brought him to Jesus. Looking at him, Jesus said: You are Simon, son of John; you will be called Cephas (which means: Peter).
The next day Jesus made up his mind to go out to Galilee, and found * Philip, and said to him, * Follow me.
Felipe was from Betsaida, from the city of Andrés and Pedro.
Philip * found Nathanael and said to him *: We have found the one of whom Moses wrote in the law, and also the prophets, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
And Nathanael said to him: Can something good come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him *: Come, and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming and said * of him: Behold a true Israelite in whom there is no deception.
Nathanael said to him *: How is it that you know me? Jesus answered him and said: Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
Nathanael replied: Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel.
Jesus answered and said to him: Because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You see greater things than these.
And he said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
And on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went * early to the grave, when it was * still dark, and saw * that the stone had already been removed from the grave.
So he ran * and * went to Simon Peter and the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them *: They have taken the Lord from the grave, and we do not know where they have put him.
So Peter and the other disciple went out and went to the tomb.
The two ran together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter, and reached the tomb first;
and bending down to look inside, he saw * the linen wraps placed there, but did not enter.
Then Simon Peter * also came after him, entered the tomb, and saw * the linen wrappings placed there,
and the shroud that had been on Jesus' head, not put on the linen wraps, but rolled up in a separate place.
Then the other disciple, the one who had reached the tomb first, also entered and saw and believed.
Because they had not yet understood the Scripture, that Jesus must rise from the dead.
The disciples then went back to their homes.
But Maria was outside, crying by the grave; and while crying, he bent down and looked into the grave;
and he saw * two angels dressed in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been, one at the head and the other at the feet.
And they said to him *: Woman, why are you crying? She said to them *: Because they have taken my Lord, and I don't know where they have put him.
Saying this, he turned and saw Jesus standing there, but did not know that it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her *: Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for? ”She, thinking it was the gardener, said to him:“ Sir, if you have taken him, tell me where you have put him, and I will take him.
Jesus said to her *: Mary! Turning, she said to him * in Hebrew: Raboni! (which means, Master).
Jesus said to him *: Let me go because I have not yet ascended to the Father; But go to my brothers and tell them: "I am going up to my Father and your Father, my God and your God."
* Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples: I have seen the Lord! And that He had said these things to her.
Then, on the evening of that day, the first of the week, and when the doors of the place where the disciples were for fear of the Jews were closed, Jesus came and stood in their midst, and said to them *: Peace be with you .
And saying this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples rejoiced to see the Lord.
Jesus then said to them again: Peace to you; As the Father has sent me, so I also send you.
After saying this, he breathed on them and said *: Receive the Holy Spirit.
To those who forgive sins, they are forgiven; to those who retain sins, these are withheld.
Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him: We have seen the Lord! But he said to them: If I do not see in your hands the sign of the nails, and I put my finger in the place of the nails, and put my hand on your side, I will not believe.
Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas with them. And when the doors were closed, Jesus came * and stood in their midst, and said: Peace be with you.
Then he * said to Thomas: Bring your finger here, and look at my hands; extend your hand here and put it in my side; and don't be an unbeliever, but a believer.
Thomas answered and said to him: My Lord and my God!
Jesus * said to him, "Because you have seen me, have you believed?" Happy are those who did not see and yet believed.
And many other signs did Jesus also in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
but these have been written so that you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and so that by believing you may have life in his name.
After this, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples by the Tiberian Sea, and manifested himself this way:
Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, Nathanael from Cana of Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples were together.
Simon Peter said to them *: I am going to fish. They said to him *: We also go with you. They went and got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing.
When it was dawn, Jesus was on the beach; but the disciples did not know it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them *: Children, do you have any fish? They answered: No.
And He said to them: Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find fishing. So they threw her out, and they couldn't get her out because of the large number of fish.
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved * said to Peter: He is the Lord! Hearing, therefore, Simon Peter that he was the Lord, he put his clothes on (because he had taken them off so that he could work), and he threw himself into the sea.
But the other disciples came in the boat, because they were not far from land, but about a hundred meters, dragging the net full of fish.
Then, when they went ashore, they saw * coals already in place and a fish placed on them, and bread.
Jesus said to them *: Bring some of the fish that you have caught now.
Simon Peter got into the boat and took the net ashore, full of big fish, one hundred and fifty-three; and although there were so many, the network did not break.
Jesus said to them *: Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples dared to ask him: Who are you ?, knowing that it was the Lord.
Jesus came *, took * the bread and gave it to him *; and he did the same with the fish.
This was the third time that Jesus manifested himself to the disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
Then, when they had finished having breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Peter said to him *: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said to him *: Feed my lambs.
And he said to him a second time: Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter said to him *: Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said to him *: Shepherd my sheep.
* He said to him a third time: Simon, son of John, do you love me? Pedro was sad because the third time he said: Do you love me? And he answered him: Lord, you know everything; you know I love you. Jesus said to him *: Feed my sheep.
Truly, truly, I tell you: when you were younger you dressed and walked where you wanted; but when you are old you will stretch out your hands and another will clothe you and take you where you don't want.
This he said, hinting at the kind of death with which Peter would glorify God. And having said this, he said to him: "Follow me.
Turning, Peter * saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them, the one who at dinner had leaned on Jesus' chest and said: Lord, who is it that is going to deliver you?
When Peter saw him, * he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this man?"
Jesus said to him *: If I want him to stay until I come, what to you? Follow me.
That is why the saying spread among the brothers that that disciple would not die; But Jesus did not say that he would not die, but: If I want him to stay until I come, what to you?
This is the disciple who testifies to these things and the one who wrote this, and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things that Jesus did, that if they were written * in detail, I don't think even the world itself could * contain the books that would be written *.
On the third day a wedding was celebrated in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there;
and also Jesus was invited, with his disciples, to the wedding.
When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother said to him: "They have no wine.
And Jesus * said to her, "Woman, what's going on with you and me?" It has not come my time yet.
His mother * said to the servants, Do whatever He tells you.
And there were six stone jars there, set to be used in the rite of purification of the Jews; each one held two or three pitchers.
Jesus said to them *: Fill the jars with water. And they filled them until the edge.
Then he said to them, "Now take a little out and take him to the master. And they took him away.
When the master tasted the water turned into wine, and since he did not know where it came from (but those who served, who had drawn the water, knew it), the master called * the groom,
And he said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first, and when they have had enough, then the least; but you have kept the good wine until now.
This principle of his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, He, with his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; but they did not stay there many days.
The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
and found in the temple those who sold oxen, sheep, and doves, and those who exchanged money sitting there.
And making a lash of ropes, he threw everyone out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen; he scattered the money changers and overturned the tables;
And he said to those who sold doves: Take this away from here; do not make my Father's house a business house.
His disciples remembered that it was written: THE ZEAL FOR YOUR HOUSE WILL CONSUME ME.
Then the Jews answered and said to him: Since you do these things, what sign do you show us?
Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Then the Jews said: In forty-six years this temple was built, and will you raise it up in three days?
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
So when he rose from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this; and they believed in the Scripture and in the word that Jesus had spoken.
When he was in Jerusalem during the Passover festival, many believed in his name when they saw the signs he was doing.
But Jesus, for his part, did not entrust himself to them, because he knew everyone,
and he had no need for anyone to bear witness to the man, for he knew what was in the man.
There was a man from the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, prominent among the Jews.
This came to Jesus at night and said to him: Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, because nobody can do the signs that you do if God is not with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born again cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to him *: How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered: Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is not born of water and of the Spirit cannot enter the kingdom of God.
What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Don't be surprised that he said: "You need to be born again."
The wind blows where it wants, and you hear its sound, but you don't know where it comes from or where it goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him: How can this be?
Jesus answered and said to him, You are the teacher of Israel, and do you not understand these things?
Truly, truly, I tell you that we speak what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our witness.
If I have spoken to you of earthly things, and you do not believe, how will you believe if I speak to you of heavenly things?
No one has ascended into heaven except the one who descended from heaven, that is, the Son of Man who is in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be raised,
so that everyone who believes may have eternal life in Him.
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, so that everyone who believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.
Because God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world, but so that the world would be saved by him.
Whoever believes in Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe has already been condemned, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the judgment: that light came into the world, and men loved darkness more than light, because their actions were bad.
Because everyone who does evil hates light, and does not come to light so that his actions are not exposed.
But he who practices truth comes to light, so that his actions may be manifested that they have been done in God.
After this Jesus came with his disciples to the land of Judea, and was there with them, and baptized.
John also baptized at Aenon, near Salim, because there was much water there; and many came and were baptized.
Because Juan had not yet been put in jail.
Then a discussion arose between John's disciples and a Jew about purification.
And they came to John and said to him: Rabbi, look, the one who was with you on the other side of the Jordan, of whom you bore witness, is baptizing and everyone goes to Him.
John answered and said: A man cannot receive anything if it is not given to him from heaven.
You yourselves bear me witness that I said: "I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him."
The one with the bride is the groom, but the groom's friend, who is there and hears him, is very happy with the groom's voice. And so this joy of mine is complete.
It is necessary that He grow, and that I decrease.
He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth comes from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all.
What He has seen and heard, He testifies to that; and no one receives his testimony.
He who has received his testimony has certified this: that God is truthful.
For the one whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for He gives the Spirit without measure.
The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand.
He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.
Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that He made and baptized more disciples than John
(although Jesus himself did not baptize, but his disciples),
He left Judea and set out again for Galilee.
And he had to go through Samaria.
So he * came to a city in Samaria called Sychar, near the parcel of land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph;
and there was Jacob's well. Then Jesus, tired from the road, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman from Samaria * came to draw water, and Jesus * said to her: Give me a drink.
Well, his disciples had gone to the city to buy food.
Then the Samaritan woman * said to him: How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me to drink, that I am a Samaritan? (Because the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.)
Jesus answered and said to him: If you knew the gift of God, and who is it that says to you: "Give me to drink", you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water.
She said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep; Where, then, do you have that living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well from which he drank himself, and his children, and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to him, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again,
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty, but the water that I will give him will become in him a source of water that springs for eternal life.
The woman said to him, "Sir, give me that water, so that I won't be thirsty or come all the way here to draw it."
He said to her *: Go, call your husband and come here.
The woman answered and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her *: You have said well: "I have no husband",
for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband; in that you have told the truth.
The woman said to him, "Lord, it seems to me that you are a prophet."
Our parents worshiped on this mountain, and you say that Jerusalem is the place where you should worship.
Jesus said to her *: Woman, believe me; The hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
You adore what you do not know; we adore what we know, because salvation comes from the Jews.
But the hour is coming, and now is, when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth; for certainly the Father seeks to adore them.
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.
The woman said to him *: I know that the Messiah is coming (the one who is called Christ); when he comes he will declare everything to us.
Jesus said to him *: I am he who speaks to you.
At this his disciples came and were amazed that he spoke to a woman, but none asked him: What are you trying to find out? or: Why are you talking to her?
Then the woman left her jug, went to the city and said * to the men:
Come, see a man who has told me everything I have done. Is not this the Christ?
And they left the city and went to Him.
Meanwhile, the disciples pleaded with him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
But He said to them: I have food to eat that you do not know.
The disciples then said to each other: Has anyone brought him something to eat?
Jesus said to them *: My food is to do the will of the one who sent me and to carry out his work.
Don't you say: "There are still four months to go, and then the harvest comes"? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and see the fields that are already white for harvest.
The reaper already receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that the one who sows rejoices together with the one who reaps.
Because in this case the saying is true: "One is the one who sows and the other is the one who reaps."
I sent you to reap what you have not worked; others have worked and you have entered into their work.
And from that city, many of the Samaritans believed in Him through the word of the woman who bore witness, saying: He told me everything I have done.
So when the Samaritans came to Him, they begged Him to stay with them; And he stayed there two days.
And many more believed by his word,
and they said to the woman: We no longer believe because of what you have said, because we have heard ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.
After two days, he left there for Galilee.
Because Jesus Himself bore witness that a prophet is not honored in his own land.
So when he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, because they had seen everything he did in Jerusalem during the festival; because they had also gone to the party.
Then he came again to Cana of Galilee, where he had turned water into wine. And there was a certain officer of the king whose son was sick at Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to meet him and begged him to come down and heal his son, because he was on the verge of death.
Jesus then said to him: If you do not see signs and wonders, you will not believe.
The king's officer said to him *: Sir, come down before my son dies.
Jesus said to him *: Go, your son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus said to him and left.
And while he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was alive.
Then he asked them what time it had started to improve. And they answered him: Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever was gone.
The father then realized that it was at the time that Jesus said to him: Your son lives. And he and his whole house believed.
This was the second sign that Jesus made when he went from Judea to Galilee.
After this, a feast of the Jews was celebrated, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And there is in Jerusalem, next to the door of the sheep, a pool that in Hebrew is called Bethesda and that has five porticos.
In these lay a multitude of sick, blind, lame and paralyzed people waiting for the movement of the water;
for an angel of the Lord came down from time to time into the pool and stirred the water; and the first who descended into the pond after the movement of the water, was cured of any illness he had.
And there was a man who had been sick for thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been in that condition for a long time, he said to him: "Do you want to be healed?
The sick man replied: Sir, I have no one to put me in the pond when the water is rough; and while I arrive, another one descends before me.
Jesus said to him *: Get up, take your mat and walk.
And instantly the man was healed, and he took his stretcher and started walking. And that day was a Sabbath.
So the Jews said to the one who was healed: It is the Sabbath, and you are not allowed to carry your mat.
But he answered them: The same one that healed me, said to me: "Take your mat and walk."
They asked him: Who is the man who said to you: "Take your mat and walk"?
But the one who had been healed did not know who he was, because Jesus had quietly withdrawn from the crowd that was in that place.
After this Jesus found him * in the temple and said to him: Look, you have been healed; sin no more, lest something worse happen to you.
The man left, and told the Jews that Jesus was the one who had healed him.
Because of this the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did these things on the Sabbath.
But He answered them: Until now my Father works, and I also work.
So, for this reason, the Jews even more tried to kill him, because he not only violated the Sabbath, but also called God his own Father, making himself equal to God.
So Jesus, answering, said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you that the Son cannot do anything on his own, except what he sees the Father doing; because everything that the Father does, that the Son also does in the same way.
For the Father loves the Son, and shows him everything that he himself does; and greater works than these will he show you, so that you may admire yourselves.
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so the Son also gives life to those whom He loves.
For even the Father does not judge anyone, but all judgment has been entrusted to the Son,
so that everyone honors the Son just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes the one who sent me has eternal life and does not come to condemnation, but has passed from death to life.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
For just as the Father has life in himself, so he also gave the Son to have life in himself;
and gave him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming when all who are in the graves will hear his voice,
And they will go out: those who did good, to resurrection of life, and those who practiced evil, to resurrection of judgment.
I cannot do anything on my initiative; As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I do not seek my will, but the will of the one who sent me.
If I only testify to myself, my testimony is not true.
Another is the one who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony he gives of me is true.
You have sent to ask John, and he has testified to the truth.
But the testimony that I receive is not from man; but I say this so that you may be saved.
He was the lamp that burned and lit, and you wanted to rejoice for a while in his light.
But the testimony that I have is greater than Juan's; because the works that the Father has given me to carry out, the same works that I do, bear witness to me, that the Father has sent me.
And the Father who sent me has testified of me. But you have never heard his voice or seen his appearance.
And you do not have his word abiding in you, because you do not believe in the one that he sent.
You examine the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and they are the ones that testify of me;
and you don't want to come to me so that you have life.
I do not receive glory from men;
but I know you, that you don't have the love of God in you.
I have come in the name of my Father and you do not receive me; if another comes in his own name, you will receive that one.
How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory that comes from the one God?
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father; the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have placed your hope.
Because if you believed Moses, you would believe me, because he wrote about me.
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?
After this, Jesus went to the other side of the Sea of ​​Galilee, that of Tiberias.
And a large crowd followed him, for they saw the signs he was performing on the sick.
Jesus went up the mountain and sat there with his disciples.
And the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Then Jesus, looking up and seeing that a great crowd was coming towards Him, said * to Philip: Where will we buy bread for these to eat?
But he said this to prove it, because he knew what he was going to do.
Felipe answered him: Two hundred denarii of bread will not be enough for each one to receive a piece.
One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, said * to Jesus:
Here is a boy who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what is this for so many?
Jesus said: Make the people lie down. And there was a lot of grass in that place. So the men leaned back, numbering about five thousand.
Then Jesus took the loaves, and having given thanks, he distributed them to those who were lying down; and he did the same with the fish, giving them everything they wanted.
When they were satisfied, he said * to his disciples: Collect the excess pieces, so that nothing is lost.
So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten.
The people then, seeing the sign that Jesus had made, said: Truly this is the Prophet who was to come to the world.
So Jesus, realizing that they were going to come and take him away by force to make him king, retired again to Mount He alone.
In the evening his disciples descended into the sea,
and getting on a boat, they went across the sea, towards Capernaum. It was already dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them;
and the sea was rough because a strong wind was blowing.
When they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw * Jesus walking on the sea and approaching the boat; and they were scared.
But He said to them *: It is I; fear not.
So they wanted to receive him in the boat, and immediately the boat reached the land where they were going.
The next day, the crowd on the other side of the sea realized that there was only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered it with his disciples, but that his disciples had left alone.
Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
So when the people saw that Jesus was not there, nor did his disciples, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum looking for Jesus.
When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when did you get here?
Jesus answered them and said: Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen signs, but because you have eaten of the loaves and have been satisfied.
Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you, because this is the one whom the Father, God, has marked with his seal.
Then they said to him: What must we do to put into practice the works of God?
Jesus answered and said to them: This is the work of God: that you believe in the one that He has sent.
Then they said to him, What then do you do as a sign that we may see and believe you? What work do you do?
Our parents ate manna in the desert, as it is written: "HE GAVE THEM EAT BREAD FROM HEAVEN."
Then Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven, but it is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.
Because the bread of God is the one that comes down from heaven, and gives life to the world.
Then they said to him: Lord, always give us this bread.
Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life; He who comes to me will not be hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty.
But I already told you that although you have seen me, you do not believe.
All that the Father gives me will come to me; And whoever comes to me, I will in no way cast out.
Because I have come down from heaven, not to do my will, but the will of the one who sent me.
And this is the will of the one who sent me: that of all that He has given me I will not lose anything, but will raise it up on the last day.
Because this is the will of my Father: that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him, has eternal life, and I myself will resurrect him on the last day.
That is why the Jews murmured about Him, because he had said: I am the bread that came down from heaven.
And they said: Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How come he now says, "I have come down from heaven"?
Jesus answered and said to them: Do not murmur among yourselves.
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings him, and I will raise him up on the last day.
It is written in the prophets: "AND ALL WILL BE TAUGHT BY GOD." Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me.
It is not that someone has seen the Father; but he who comes from God has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
Your parents ate manna in the desert, and died.
This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that whoever eats it will not die.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven; if anyone eats this bread, he will live forever; and the bread that I will also give for the life of the world is my meat.
The Jews then contended with each other, saying: How can this man give us his meat to eat?
Then Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, if you do not eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
Because my meat is true food, and my blood is true drink.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him.
As the living Father sent me, and I live for the Father, likewise the one who eats me, he will also live for me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven; not like the one your parents ate, and died; He who eats this bread will live forever.
This Jesus said in the synagogue, when he was teaching in Capernaum.
That is why many of his disciples, when they heard this, said: This declaration is hard; Who can hear it?
But Jesus, knowing within himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: Does this scandalize you?
What if you saw the Son of Man ascend to where he was before?
The Spirit is the one who gives life; meat is of no use; the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life.
But there are some of you who don't believe. Because Jesus knew from the beginning who were those who did not believe, and who was the one who was going to betray him.
And he said: That is why I have told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has granted him.
As a result of this many of his disciples turned away and no longer walked with Him.
Then Jesus said to the twelve: Do you want to go too?
Simon Peter answered him: Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal life.
And we have believed and known that you are the Holy One of God.
Jesus answered them: Did I not choose you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil?
And He was referring to Judas, son of Simon Iscariot, because he, one of the twelve, was going to deliver him.
After this, Jesus was walking in Galilee, because he did not want to walk through Judea because the Jews tried to kill him.
And the feast of the Jews, that of the Tabernacles, was near.
That is why his brothers said to him: Get out of here, and go to Judea so that your disciples also see the works that you do.
Because nobody does anything in secret when trying to be known in public. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.
Because not even his brothers believed in him.
Then Jesus said to them *: My time has not yet come, but your time is always opportune.
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I bear witness to it that its actions are bad.
You go up to the party; I do not go to this party because my time has not yet been fulfilled.
And having said this to them, he remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers went up to the party, then He also went up; not openly, but secretly.
So the Jews looked for him at the party and said: Where is that one?
And there was a lot of gossip among the people about Him. Some said: He is good. Others said: No, on the contrary, it misleads people.
However, no one spoke openly about Him for fear of the Jews.
But halfway through the party, Jesus went up to the temple and began to teach.
Then the Jews marveled, saying: How can this knowledge of letters without having studied?
Jesus then answered them and said: My teaching is not mine, but the one that sent me.
If someone wants to do his will, he will know if my teaching is from God or if I speak about myself.
He who speaks of himself seeks his own glory; But he who seeks the glory of him who sent him, this is true and there is no injustice in him.
Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keep it? Why are you trying to kill me?
The crowd replied: You have a demon! Who is trying to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them: I did only one work and you all admire yourselves.
That is why Moses has given you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the parents), and on the Sabbath you circumcise the man.
And if in order not to violate the law of Moses a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, why are you mad at me because I completely healed a man on the Sabbath?
Do not judge by appearance, but judge with fair judgment.
Then some of Jerusalem said: Is not this the one they are trying to kill?
And see, he speaks in public and they don't tell him anything. Is it not that the rulers really recognize that this is the Christ?
However, we know where this is from; but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he is from.
Then Jesus, while teaching in the temple, exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: You know me and you know where I am from. I did not come on my own, but the one who sent me is true, whom you do not know.
I know Him, because I come from Him, and He sent me.
So they tried to catch him; but no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come.
But many of the crowd believed in him, and said: When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than what he has done?
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent bailiffs to arrest him.
Then Jesus said: For a little while I am with you; then I go to the one who sent me.
You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot go.
Then the Jews said to one another: Where does this man intend to go that we do not find him? Could it be that he wants to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
What does this mean that he has said: "You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot go"?
And on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink.
He who believes in me, as Scripture has said: "Rivers of living water will flow from the deepest part of his being."
But He said this of the Spirit, that those who had believed in Him were to receive; for the Spirit had not yet been given, for Jesus had not yet been glorified.
Then some of the crowd, when they heard these words, said: Truly this is the Prophet.
Others said: This is the Christ. But others said: Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was from?
So a division arose among the crowd because of Him.
And some of them wanted to catch him, but no one laid a hand on him.
Then the bailiffs came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them: Why did you not bring him?
The bailiffs replied: No man has ever spoken as this man speaks!
Then the Pharisees answered them: Have you also been deceived?
Has any of the rulers, or the Pharisees, believed in Him?
But this crowd that doesn't know the law is cursed.
Nicodemus, the one who had come to Jesus before, and who was one of them, said to them *:
Does our law judge a man unless he hears him first and knows what he is doing?
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Investigate, and you will see that no prophet arises from Galilee.
And each one went home.
But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
And at dawn, he came again to the temple, and all the people came to him; and sitting down, he taught them.
The scribes and Pharisees * brought a woman caught in adultery, and put her in the middle,
They said to him *: Master, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery.
And in the law, Moses ordered us to stone this class of women; So what do you say?
They said this, testing him, to have something to accuse him of. But Jesus leaned down and with his finger wrote on the ground.
But when they insisted on asking him, Jesus straightened up and said to them: He who is without sin among you, be the first to throw a stone at him.
And bowing again, he wrote on the ground.
But when they heard this, they withdrew one by one, starting with the older ones, leaving only Jesus and the woman in the middle.
Straightening up, Jesus said to her, "Woman, where are they?" Has none condemned you?
And she replied: None, Lord. Then Jesus said to him: I do not condemn you either. Go away; from now on sin no more.
Jesus spoke to them again, saying: I am the light of the world; He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to him: You testify of yourself; your testimony is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them: Although I give testimony of myself, my testimony is true, because I know where I have come from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
You judge according to the flesh; I do not judge anyone.
But if I judge, my judgment is true; because it is not me alone, but me and the Father who sent me.
Even in your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.
I am the one who testifies of myself, and the Father who sent me testifies of me.
So they said to him: Where is your Father? Jesus replied: You do not know me or my Father. If you knew me, you would also know my Father.
He spoke these words in the treasure place, when he was teaching in the temple; and no one caught him, because his hour had not yet come.
Then he said to them again: I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin; Where I am going, you cannot go.
That is why the Jews said: Is he going to commit suicide, since he says: "Where I am going, you cannot go"?
And Jesus said to them: You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
So I told you that you will die in your sins; because if you do not believe that I am, you will die in your sins.
So they said to him: Who are you? Jesus said to them: What have I been saying to you from the beginning?
I have a lot to say and judge about you, but the one who sent me is truthful; and I, the things that I heard from Him, these I say to the world.
They did not understand that I was talking about the Father.
That is why Jesus said: When you raise up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am and that I do nothing on my own, but speak these things as the Father taught me.
And the one who sent me is with me; He has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.
In speaking these things, many believed in Him.
Then Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him: If you remain in my word, you are truly my disciples;
and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
They replied: We are descendants of Abraham and have never been slaves to anyone. How do you say: "You will be free"?
Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin;
and the slave does not stay in the house forever; the son does remain forever.
So if the Son sets you free, you will be really free.
I know that you are descendants of Abraham; and yet you try to kill me because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen with my Father; you, then, also do what you heard from your father.
They answered him and said: Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them *: If you are children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham.
But now you are trying to kill me, I have told you the truth that I heard from God. This Abraham did not do.
Ye do the deeds of your father. They said to him: We were not born of fornication; we have a Father, that is, God.
Jesus said to them: If God were your Father, you would love me, because I came from God and came from Him, since I did not come on my own initiative, but He sent me.
Why don't you understand what I'm saying? Because you can't hear my word.
You are from your father the devil and you want to make your father's wishes come true. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he has not stayed true because there is no truth in him. When he speaks lies, he speaks of his own nature, because he is a liar and the father of lies.
But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me.
Which one of you proves that I have sin? And if I say the truth, why don't you believe me?
He who is of God hears the words of God; therefore you do not listen, because you are not of God.
The Jews answered and said to him: Do we not rightly say that you are a Samaritan and that you have a demon?
Jesus replied: I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
But I do not seek my glory; there is One who seeks it, and judges.
Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death.
The Jews said to him: Now we do know that you have a demon. Abraham died, and so did the prophets, and you say, "If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death."
Are you perhaps greater than our father Abraham who died? The prophets also died; Who do you think you are?
Jesus replied: If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing; it is my Father who glorifies me, about whom you say: "He is our God".
And you have not known him, but I know him; And if I say that I don't know him, I will be a liar like you; but I do know him and keep his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced expecting to see my day; and he saw it and was glad.
This is why the Jews said to him: You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them: Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am.
So they took stones to throw at them, but Jesus hid himself and left the temple.
As Jesus passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, to be born blind?
Jesus answered: Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but he is blind so that the works of God are manifested in him.
We must do the works of him who sent me while it is day; the night comes when nobody can work.
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Having said this, he spat on the ground, and made mud with the saliva and smeared the mud on his eyes,
and said to him: Go and wash in the pool of Siloe (which means, Envoy). So he went and washed and came back seeing.
Then the neighbors and those who had previously seen him as a beggar, said: Is not this the one who sat and begged?
Some said: He is; and others said: No, but it looks like him. He said: I am.
So they said to him: How were your eyes opened?
He replied: The man called Jesus made clay, he smeared it on my eyes and said: "Go to Siloé and wash yourself." So I went, washed, and received the sight.
And they said to him, Where is He? He said *: I don't know.
They brought * before the Pharisees the man who had been blind before.
And it was a Sabbath the day that Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then the Pharisees also asked him again how he had received his sight. And he said to them: He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see.
This is why some of the Pharisees said: This man does not come from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said: How can a sinful man do such signs? And there was division between them.
Then they said * again to the blind man: What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes? And he said: He is a prophet.
Then the Jews did not believe him that he had been blind, and that he had received sight, until they called the parents of the one who had received sight,
And they asked them, saying: Is this your son, the one you say was born blind? How come you see now?
His parents then answered them and said: We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
but how he sees now, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him; How old he is, he will speak for himself.
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews; because the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that Jesus was the Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue.
So his parents said: He is old; ask him.
For the second time they called the man who had been blind and said: Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
Then he answered them: If he is a sinner, I do not know; I know one thing: that I was blind and now I see.
Then they said to him: What did he do to you? How did it open your eyes?
He answered them: I already told you and you did not listen; Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?
Then they insulted him and said to him: You are a disciple of that man; but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for him, we do not know where he is from.
The man answered and said to them: Well, there is something amazing in this, that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes.
We know that God does not hear sinners; but if someone fears God and does his will, he hears it.
From the beginning it has never been heard of anyone opening the eyes of a man born blind.
If it did not come from God, it could not do anything.
They answered and said to him: You were born entirely in sins, and do you teach us? And they threw him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he found him, he said to him, Do you believe in the Son of Man?
He answered and said: And who is it, Lord, so that I believe in Him?
Jesus said to him, Well, you have seen him, and the one who is talking to you is that one.
He then said: I believe, Lord. And she adored him.
And Jesus said: I came into this world for judgment; so that those who do not see may see, and so that those who see may become blind.
Some of the Pharisees who were with him heard this and said to him: Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them: If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now, because you say: "We see", your sin remains.
Judas, servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those called, loved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:
Mercy, peace and love be multiplied to you.
Beloved, because of the great effort I had to write to you about our common salvation, I have felt the need to write to you exhorting you to contend ardently for the faith that once and for all was given to the saints.
For some men have secretly infiltrated, who long before were marked for this condemnation, wicked who turn the grace of our God into debauchery, and deny our only Sovereign and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Now I want to remind you, although you definitely already know everything, that the Lord, having saved the people from the land of Egypt, later destroyed those who did not believe.
And he has kept angels who did not retain their original lordship, but abandoned their rightful abode, in eternal prisons, under darkness for the judgment of the great day.
So also Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, like those, since they were corrupted and followed strange meat, are exhibited as an example to suffer the punishment of eternal fire.
However, in the same way also these men, dreaming, stain the flesh, reject the authority and blaspheme the angelic majesties.
But when the archangel Michael contended with the devil and disputed about the body of Moses, he did not dare to utter a curse judgment against him, but said: The Lord rebukes you.
But these blasphemers the things that they do not understand, and the things that like irrational animals they know by instinct, by these things they are destroyed.
Woe to them! Because they have followed the way of Cain, and for profit they threw themselves into Balaam's error, and perished in the rebellion of Korah.
These are hidden obstacles in your agapes, when they feast with you without fear, feeding themselves; they are clouds without water carried by the winds, autumn trees without fruit, twice dead and uprooted;
they are furious waves of the sea, that foam their own shame; wandering stars for whom the darkness of darkness has been reserved forever.
Of these also Enoch prophesied, in the seventh generation from Adam, saying: Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his saints,
to execute judgment on all, and to condemn all the wicked for all their wicked deeds, which they have done wickedly, and for all the offensive things that wicked sinners said against Him.
These are murmurs, complainers, who go after their own passions; they speak arrogantly, flattering people for profit.
But you, beloved, remember the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who said to you: In recent times there will be scoffers who will go after their own impious passions.
These are the ones that cause divisions; worldly individuals who do not have the Spirit.
But you, beloved, edifying yourselves in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in the love of God, anxiously awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ for eternal life.
And have mercy on some who doubt;
save others by snatching them from the fire; and have mercy on others with fear, hating even the flesh-contaminated clothing.
And to him who is mighty to keep you without fall and to present you without blemish in the presence of his glory with great joy,
to the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion and authority, before all time, and now and for all time. Amen.
Cat song
The cat leaps from one side to the other.
Mr. Colapinta jumps from one side to the other.
On the banks of the stream, on the banks of the river,
on top of the flower of the colorín stick.
The cat leaps from one side to the other.
Mr. Colapinta jumps from one side to the other.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's skull?
They made the inkwell of the scribe.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's ear?
They made the cook's spoon.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's eyes?
They made the singer's glasses.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's nose?
They made the blacksmith's bellows.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's whiskers?
They made the seamstress needles.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's incisor teeth?
They made the garlic from the cook.
What did they do with Señor Gato's teeth?
They made the carpenter's saw.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's tongue?
They made the blacksmith's file.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's throat?
They made the pipe of the king's house.
What did they do with the nut from Mr. Cat's throat?
They made the carpenter's hammer.
What did they do with Señor Gato's shoulder blade?
They made the baker's shovel.
What did they do with Senor Gato's nail?
They made the guitar pick.
What did you do with Mr. Cat's heart?
They made the clock.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's liver?
They made the seal pad for the president.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's backbone?
They made the violin bow.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's small intestine?
They made the violin string.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's large intestine?
They made the book for the king to read.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's testicles?
They made the cook's earrings.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's femur?
They made the president's cane.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's tail?
They made the singer's beat.
What did they do with Mr. Cat's skin?
They made the lieutenant's cloak.
The cat leaps from one side to the other.
Mr. Colapinta jumps from one side to the other.
On the banks of the stream, on the banks of the river,
the flower of the color stick.
The cat leaps from one side to the other.
Mr. Colapinta jumps from one side to the other.
The cockroach, the chicken, the coyote and the lord
There was a rabbit that needed money, and he went to the roach and asked for it.
And he told him that the day he picks his cornfield, he should come and pick his corn. And the rabbit left for his money.
The money ran out again, so the rabbit went to the hen, and said she was going to give him corn, just as she had told the roach.
The money ran out again, so it was with the coyote
And the money ran out again. And this time he went to a man, and said he was going to give him corn.
The day came when they all went with the rabbit to receive their corn.
The cockroach came and said to the rabbit:
"Here I am so you can give me my corn," he said to the rabbit.
And the rabbit said to the roach:
-It can. Wait for me, but hide there! Otherwise the hen will come and eat you
Said the rabbit.
And the cockroach hid.
And the chicken came and said:
-I'm here. Give me my corn!
And he said:
"Wait there for me to see what you can find to eat."
And he saw the roach and ate it. And the rabbit told him to hide in the undergrowth.
Otherwise the coyote was going to arrive and eat it.
And the coyote came and said that he had come to receive his corn.
And the rabbit said to him:
"Wait and look in the brush there to see if you can find something to eat," he said.
And the coyote found the chicken and ate it.
Then the rabbit also said to the coyote:
"Hide in the kid there." Otherwise the man will come and kill you
The rabbit said to the coyote.
And that man came and said to the rabbit:
"Here I am so you can give me my corn."
And the rabbit said to him:
—Look there inside the chiquihuite to see what you find to eat. Then let's go, ”he said.
And he saw the coyote and killed him. And so it ended.
Then the two of them left. And there was a bridge, and the rabbit passed it several times because of course it doesn't weigh much.
Then the man passed, and when he was in the middle of the bridge, it collapsed; and the lord fell into the ravine.
Then the rabbit returned home very happy.
The Milpa
If you want to plant a cornfield, you must first fallow the land well. In red soil once fallow is sufficient, but in black soil should be fallow twice.
So, when the first rain comes, we start planting the seed and then we till again to cultivate, and then we pluck all the weeds that don't work, and the cornfield will be fine.
When it rains a lot, the harvest is lost, but if it rains just enough, then the harvest is good.
In good soil, which has been prepared with manure, it doesn't matter if it rains a lot or if it rains little, the harvest always goes well.
The turtle Luis found
Luis found a turtle where the earth was crumbling,
and he said to Benito:
"Nito, look!" a turtle.
-Really? Nito asked.
"Look at it for yourself," Luis replied.
So Luis found the turtle. Then he took a stone and started hitting it on the shell.
Benito started laughing.
Then Luis said to him:
"He plucks an ear to see if we can get him something to eat."
So Benito plucked an ear and they started feeding the turtle,
but she did not want to eat because she was afraid that they would eat her.
Luis said again to Nito:
"Get some cheese out of my bag;
see if you eat that.
Benito went and took the cheese out of Luis's backpack and they started giving it to him, but the turtle still didn't want to eat.
Then Luis said:
"—Now, make us a campfire and we'll cook it, so we can eat it."
Benito made the fire, but then asked
"How are we going to cook it if we don't have a pot?"
Then he replied:
"We can use a gourd." Go find three stones in the river and bring them
Luis replied.
Benito went to look for the stones and when Luis returned he put them on fire.
When the stones became very, very red, he took them out of the fire and put them in a jug full of water.
That was how they finally cooked the turtle and ate it. They were very happy to eat the meat of the turtle.
Once there were three boys and a girl,
and all three fell in love with that girl.
And the girl spoke to each of them
and commanded them to go to the pantheon to watch.
And he said that any boy who was not scared of anything,
he could marry her.
Then the day came when they were going to the pantheon,
and there were all three of them; and then a ghost appeared,
and all three fled.
Then the girl laughed because she had disguised herself as a ghost.
So the next day she returned home.
And he said to those boys
that not one of them was going to marry her,
through his own fault,
because they had been frightened and had fled from the pantheon.
So the three of them asked how he knew
she that the boys had fled.
Then the girl said that
she herself had disguised herself as a ghost,
and all three laughed.
After this, the Lord appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two before Him, to every city and place where He was to go.
And he said to them: The harvest is great, but the workers few; Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
Go; See that I send you like lambs among wolves.
Do not bring a bag, saddlebag, or sandals; and greet no one on the way.
In any house you enter, say first: "Peace to this house."
And if there is a son of peace there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will come back to you.
So stay in that house, eating and drinking what they give you; because the worker is worthy of his salary. Do not go from house to house.
In whatever city you enter and are received, eat what is served to you;
Heal the sick in it, and say to them, "The kingdom of God has drawn near to you."
But in any city where you enter, and they do not receive you, go out to its streets, and say:
"Even the dust of your city that clings to our feet, we shake off in protest against you; but know this: that the kingdom of God is at hand."
I tell you that on that day the punishment for Sodom will be more tolerable than for that city.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you Betsaida! Because if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have repented long ago sitting on sackcloth and ash.
Therefore, the judgment will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, will you be raised to heaven? Even Hades you will be sunk!
He who listens to you listens to me, and he who rejects you rejects me; and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me.
The seventy returned with joy, saying: Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name.
And He said to them: I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning.
Behold, I have given you authority to trample over serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing will harm you.
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.
In that same hour He rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit, and said: I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you hid these things from wise and intelligent, and revealed them to children. Yes, Father, because it was to your liking.
All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is but the Father, nor who is the Father but the Son, and who the Son wants to reveal it to.
And turning to the disciples, he said to them apart: Blessed are the eyes that see what you see;
for I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
And behold, a certain interpreter of the law arose, and to test him said, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And He said to him: What is written in the law? What do you read in it?
He answered and said: YOU SHALL LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD WITH ALL YOUR HEART, AND WITH ALL YOUR SOUL, AND WITH ALL YOUR STRENGTH, AND WITH ALL YOUR MIND; AND YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF.
Then Jesus said to him: You have answered correctly; DO THIS AND YOU WILL LIVE.
But wanting to justify himself, he said to Jesus: And who is my neighbor?
Jesus answered and said, A certain man came down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell into the hands of robbers, who after stripping him and beating him, left, leaving him half dead.
By chance a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw it, he passed the other side of the road.
In the same way, also a frock coat, when he arrived at the place and saw it, passed by the other side of the road.
But a certain Samaritan, who was going on a trip, came to where he was; and when he saw it, he had compassion,
And approaching, he bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them; And putting him on his own mount, he carried him to an inn and cared for him.
The next day, taking out two denarii, he gave them to the innkeeper, and said: "Take care of it, and everything else you spend, when I return I will pay you."
Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the one who fell into the hands of the robbers?
And he said: He who had mercy on him. And Jesus said to him: Go and do the same.
While they were on the way, He entered a certain village; and a woman named Marta met him at his home.
And she had a sister named Maria, who sat at the Lord's feet, listening to his word.
But Marta was concerned with all the preparations; And approaching him, she said: Lord, don't you mind if my sister lets me serve alone? So tell him to help me.
The Lord answered and said to her: Marta, Marta, you are worried and bothered by so many things;
but only one thing is necessary, and Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken from her.
And it came to pass that while Jesus was praying in a certain place, when he had finished, one of his disciples said to him: Lord, teach us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.
And He said to them: When you pray, say: "Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
Give us today our daily bread.
And forgive us our sins, because we also forgive all those who owe us. And don't tempt us. "
He also said to them: Suppose one of you has a friend, and he goes to him at midnight and says: "Friend, lend me three loaves,
because a friend of mine has come to my house on a trip, and I have nothing to offer him ";
and he, answering from the inside, says: "Don't disturb me; the door is already closed, and my children and I are in bed; I can't get up to give you anything."
I tell you that although he does not get up to give you something because he is his friend, nevertheless, due to his importunity he will get up and give you whatever he needs.
And I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Because everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to the caller it will be opened.
Or suppose that one of you who is a father asks his son for bread; Will he give you a stone? Or if he asks for a fish; Will he give him a snake instead of the fish?
Or if you ask for an egg; Will he give you a scorpion?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?
Jesus was casting out a demon, which was mute, and it happened that when the demon came out, the mute spoke; and the crowds were amazed.
But some of them said: He casts out demons by Beelzebub, prince of demons.
Still others, to test Him, demanded of Him a sign from heaven.
But when He knew their thoughts, He said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated; and a house divided against itself collapses.
And if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom remain standing? Because you say that I cast out demons for Beelzebú.
And if I cast out demons for Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be your judges.
But if by the finger of God I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come to you.
When a strong, well-armed man guards his palace, his assets are safe.
But when someone stronger than he attacks him and defeats him, he takes away all his weapons he had trusted and distributes his loot.
He who is not with me is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
When the unclean spirit leaves man, it goes through arid places looking for rest; and when he could not find it, he says: "I will return to my house where I came from."
And when he arrives, he finds it swept and groomed.
So he goes and takes with him seven other spirits worse than him, and entering, they dwell there; and the final state of that man is worse than the first.
And it happened that while saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said: Blessed is the womb that conceived you and the breasts that raised you!
But He said: On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
As the crowd gathered, he began to say: This generation is a wicked generation; Look for a sign, and no sign will be given to you but the sign of Jonah.
For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so too will the Son of Man be for this generation.
The Queen of the South will rise up in judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and look, something bigger than Solomon is here.
Nineveh's men will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and look, something bigger than Jonah is here.
Nobody, when he lights a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a bushel, but on the candlestick, so that those who enter see the light.
The lamp of your body is your eye; when your eye is healthy, your whole body is also full of light; but when it is bad, your body is also full of darkness.
See, then, that the light in you is not darkness.
So if your whole body is full of light, with no part in darkness, it will be fully illuminated as when the lamp shines on you with its rays.
When he finished speaking, a Pharisee * asked him to eat with him; and Jesus went in and sat at the table.
When the Pharisee saw this, he was surprised that Jesus had not washed himself first before eating, according to the Jewish ritual.
But the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the glass and the plate; but inside you are full of theft and evil.
Fools, whoever did the outside did not also do the inside?
Give instead what is within as a charity, and then everything will be clean for you.
But woe to you Pharisees, because you pay the tithe for mint and rue and all kinds of vegetables, and yet you overlook the justice and love of God; but this is what you should have practiced without neglecting the other.
Woe to you Pharisees! Because you love the first seats in the synagogues and the respectful greetings in the squares.
Woe to you !, because you are like graves that are not seen, on which men walk without knowing it.
One of the interpreters of the law answered and said to him: "Master, when you say this, you also insult us.
And He said: Woe to you also, interpreters of the law, because you burden men with burdens difficult to bear, and you do not even touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Woe to you !, because you build the tombs of the prophets, and it was your parents who killed them.
So you are witnesses, and you approve of the actions of your parents; because they killed them and you build their graves.
That is why the wisdom of God also said: "I will send you prophets and apostles, and of them, they will kill some and persecute others,
so that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, be charged to this generation,
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zacharias, who perished between the altar and the house of God; yes, I tell you that it will be charged to this generation. "
Woe to you, interpreters of the law, because you have taken away the key of knowledge; You yourselves did not enter, and you prevented those who were entering.
When he got out of there, the scribes and Pharisees began to harass him greatly, and to interrogate him thoroughly about many things,
plotting against him to catch him in something he said.
In these circumstances, when a multitude of thousands and thousands had gathered, so much that they were running over each other, Jesus began to say first to his disciples: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
And there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, nor hidden that is not to be known.
Therefore, everything you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed from the rooftops.
And I say to you, my friends: do not fear those who kill the body, and after this they have nothing else they can do.
But I will show you who you must fear: fear the one who, after killing, has the power to cast into hell; yes, I say to you: fear this!
Are not five sparrows sold for two rooms? And yet not one of them is forgotten before God.
What's more, even the hairs on your head are all numbered. Fear not; you are worth more than many sparrows.
And I tell you, whoever confesses me before men, the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God;
But whoever denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God.
And everyone who says a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; But whoever blasphemes the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
And when they take you to the synagogues and before the rulers and authorities, don't worry about how or what you will speak in self-defense, or what you are going to say;
because the Holy Spirit in that same hour will teach you what you must say.
One of the crowd said to him: Master, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But He said to him: Man! Who has put me as judge or referee over you?
And he said to them: Be attentive and beware of all forms of greed; because even when someone has abundance, his life does not consist of his assets.
He also told them a parable, saying: The land of a certain rich man had produced much.
And he thought within himself, saying: "What will I do, since I have no place to store my crops?"
Then he said, "This I will do: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
And I will say to my soul: Alma, you have many assets deposited for many years; rest, eat, drink, have fun. "
But God said to him: "Fool! This very night your soul is demanded; and now, for whom will it be what you have provided?"
So is he who accumulates treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
And he said to his disciples: That is why I tell you: Do not worry about your life, what you will eat; nor for your body, what will you wear.
Because life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Consider the crows, which neither sow nor reap; they have no cellar or barn, and yet God feeds them; How much more valuable are you than the birds!
And who of you, eager as he is, can add an hour to the course of his life?
If you, then, cannot do something so small, why do you worry about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow; they neither work nor spin; But I tell you, not even Solomon in all his glory dressed like one of these.
And if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will He do for you, you of little faith!
So do not seek what you should eat or what you should drink, and do not be concerned.
Because the peoples of the world anxiously seek all these things; but your Father knows that you need these things.
But seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you.
Do not fear, little flock, because your Father has decided to give you the kingdom.
Sell ​​your possessions and give alms; Make yourselves bags that do not deteriorate, a treasure in the heavens that does not run out, where no thief approaches or the moth destroys.
Because where your treasure is, there will also be your heart.
Always be prepared and keep the lamps on,
and be like men who wait for their lord who returns from weddings, to open him as soon as he arrives and calls.
Blessed are those servants whom the lord, upon coming, finds watching; Truly, I say to you, he will gird himself to serve, and he will seat them at the table, and drawing near, he will serve them.
And whether he comes on the second watch, or even the third, and finds them so, blessed are those servants.
You can be sure that if the owner of the house had known what time the thief was coming, he would not have allowed him to enter his house.
Be prepared, too, for the Son of Man will come at the hour you do not expect.
Then Peter said: Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to all the others?
And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward whom his lord will put upon his servants, that he may give them their rations in due time?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
I really tell you that he will put it on all his assets.
But if that servant says in his heart: "My lord will be late in coming"; and he begins to beat the servants and the maids, and to eat, to drink and to get drunk;
the lord of that servant will arrive one day, when he does not expect it and at an hour that he does not know, and will whip him severely, and assign him a place with the unbelievers.
And that servant who knew the will of his master, and who did not prepare himself or act according to his will, will receive many lashes;
but he who did not know it, and did things that deserved punishment, will be whipped little. Anyone who has been given much, much will be required of him; And to the one who has been entrusted with much, they will demand more.
I have come to cast fire on the earth; and how I wish it was already on!
But of a baptism I have to be baptized, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!
Do you think I came to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.
Because from now on, five in one house will be divided; three against two and two against three.
The father will be divided against the son and the son against the father; mother against daughter and daughter against mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
He also said to the crowds: When you see a cloud rising in the west, you instantly say: "A downpour is coming", and so it happens.
And when the south wind blows, you say: "It's going to be hot", and so it happens.
You hypocrites! You know how to examine the aspect of the earth and the sky; so why don't you examine this present time?
And why don't you judge for yourself what is fair?
Because while you go with your adversary to appear before the magistrate, try to settle with him along the way, lest you drag yourself before the judge, and the judge hand you over to the bailiff, and the bailiff throw you in jail.
I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid even the last penny.
On that same occasion there were some who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with that of their sacrifices.
Jesus answered and said to them: Do you think that these Galileans were more sinful than all the other Galileans, because they suffered this?
I tell you, no; on the contrary, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
Or do you think that those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloe fell and killed them, were more debtors than all the men who live in Jerusalem?
I tell you, no; on the contrary, if you do not repent, you will all perish equally.
And he told them this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he went looking for fruit of it, and did not find it.
And he said to the vinedresser: "Look, I've been looking for fruit on this fig tree for three years, and I can't find it. Cut it down. Why should the earth tire?"
He then, answering, said to her: "Lord, leave her for this year yet, until I dig around her, and I fertilize her,
and if it bears fruit next year, fine; and if not, cut it. "
Jesus was teaching a Sabbath in one of the synagogues,
and there was a woman there who for eighteen years had had a disease caused by a spirit; she was hunched over, and there was no way she could straighten up.
When Jesus saw her, he called her and said: Woman, you have been freed from your illness.
And he laid his hands on her, and instantly she straightened up and glorified God.
But the synagogue officer, outraged that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, reacted by saying to the crowd: There are six days in which you must work; therefore come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath.
Then the Lord answered him and said: Hypocrites, does not each one of you untie his ox or his ass from the manger on the Sabbath and take it to drink?
And this, who is the daughter of Abraham, to whom Satan has been bound for eighteen long years, should she not be freed from this binding on the Sabbath?
And as He said this, all his adversaries were ashamed, but the whole crowd rejoiced at all the glorious things done by Him.
Then he said: What is the kingdom of God like and what will I compare it to?
It is like a mustard seed that a man took and put in his garden; And it grew and became a tree, AND THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN NESTED IN ITS BRANCHES.
And he said again: To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
It is similar to the yeast that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until everything was fermented.
Jesus passed through cities and villages, teaching, as he continued on his way to Jerusalem.
And someone said to him: Lord, are there few who are saved? And He said to them:
Make an effort to enter through the narrow door, because I tell you that many will try to enter and will not be able to.
After the owner of the house gets up and closes the door, and you, outside, begin to knock on the door, saying: "Lord, open to us", He responding, will tell you: "I don't know where you are from."
Then you will begin to say: "We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets";
and He will say: "I tell you, I do not know where you are from; DEPART FROM ME, ALL THOSE WHO DO INIQUITY."
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you cast out.
And they will come from the east and the west, from the north and from the south, and will sit at the table in the kingdom of God.
And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.
At that moment some Pharisees came saying to him: Get out of here, because Herod wants to kill you.
And He said to them: Go and tell that fox: "I cast out demons, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and on the third day I fulfill my purpose."
However, I must continue on my way, today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow; for it cannot be that a prophet dies outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the hen to her chicks under her wings, and you didn't want to!
Behold, your house is left to you deserted; and I tell you that you will not see me anymore, until the time comes when you say: "BLESSED IS HE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD."
And it came to pass that when Jesus entered the house of one of the chief of the Pharisees on a Sabbath day to eat bread, they were watching him carefully.
And there, in front of Him, was a man with dropsy.
And Jesus, addressing the interpreters of the law and the Pharisees, spoke to them saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?
But they were silent. And He, taking him by the hand, healed him and dismissed him.
And he said to them, To whom of you does a son or an ox fall into a pit on the Sabbath, and do not immediately remove it?
And they couldn't answer this.
And he began to tell a parable to the guests, when he noticed how they chose places of honor at the table, saying:
When you are invited by someone to a wedding banquet, do not take the place of honor, lest he has invited someone more distinguished than you,
And when the one who invited you and him came, tell you: "Give this place"; and then, embarrassed, you have to go to the last place.
But when you are invited, go and sit in the last place, so that when the one who invited you arrives, he says to you: "Friend, come later"; then you will be honored in front of all who sit at the table with you.
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled; and he who humbles himself will be exalted.
And he also said to the one who had invited him: When you offer a lunch or dinner, do not call your friends, your brothers, your relatives, or your wealthy neighbors, lest they in turn also convince you and have your reward already.
Rather, when you offer a banquet, call the poor, the one-armed, the lame, the blind,
and you will be blessed, since they do not have to reward you; for you will be rewarded in the resurrection of the righteous.
When one of those who were sitting with him at the table heard this, he said: Blessed is everyone who eats bread in the kingdom of God!
But He said to him: A certain man gave a great dinner, and invited many;
and at dinner he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, "Come, for everything is already prepared."
And everyone began to apologize. The first said to him: "I have bought a piece of land and I need to go see it; I beg your pardon."
And another said: "I have bought five yoke of oxen and I am going to test them; I beg your pardon."
Another also said: "I have married, and that is why I cannot go."
When the servant returned, he reported all this to his lord. Then, angry the owner of the house, said to his servant: "Go immediately through the streets and alleys of the city, and bring here the poor, the one-handed, the blind and the lame."
And the servant said, "Lord, what you commanded has been done, and there is still room."
Then the lord said to the servant: "Go out to the roads and through the fences, and force them to enter so that my house is full.
Because I tell you, none of those men who were invited will taste my dinner. "
Large crowds accompanied him; and he turned and said to them:
If anyone comes to me, and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children, his brothers and sisters, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
He who does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
For which of you, wanting to build a tower, does not sit first and calculate the cost, to see if he has enough to finish it?
Lest when he has laid the foundation and can't finish, everyone who sees him will start making fun of him,
saying: "This man began to build and could not finish."
Or what king, when he meets another king for battle, does not sit down first and deliberate if with ten thousand men he is strong enough to face the one who comes against him with twenty thousand?
And if not, when the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for peace conditions.
So any one of you who does not give up all his possessions cannot be my disciple.
Therefore, salt is good, but if the salt has also lost its flavor, with what will it be seasoned?
It is not useful neither for the land nor for the manure; they throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
All the tax collectors and the sinners approached Jesus to hear him;
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
Then He told them this parable, saying:
What man among you, if he has a hundred sheep and one of them is lost, does not leave the ninety-nine in the field and goes after the one that is lost until he finds it?
Upon finding it, he puts it on his shoulders, joyful;
and when he arrives at his house, he gathers the friends and the neighbors, saying: "Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost."
I tell you that in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven for a sinner who repents than for the ninety-nine righteous who do not need repentance.
Or what woman, if she has ten silver coins and loses a coin, doesn't light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it?
When he finds it, he gathers friends and neighbors together, saying: "Rejoice with me because I have found the coin I had lost."
In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over a sinner who repents.
And Jesus said: A certain man had two sons;
and the youngest of them said to the father: "Father, give me my share of the hacienda." And he distributed their goods to them.
Not many days later, the youngest son, putting it all together, left for a distant country, and there he squandered his estate living riotously.
When he had spent everything, a great famine came in that country, and he began to be in need.
So he went and approached one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him to his fields to feed pigs.
And he wanted to fill his stomach with the carob beans that the pigs ate, but nobody gave him anything.
Then, coming to his senses, he said: "How many of my father's workers have bread to spare, but I am starving here!
I will get up and go to my father, and I will say to him: "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you;
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your workers "".
And getting up, he went to his father. And when he was still away, his father saw him and felt compassion for him, and he ran, fell on his neck and kissed him.
And the son said to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son."
But the father said to his servants, "Soon; bring the best clothes and clothe him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet;
and bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let us eat and rejoice;
because this son of mine was dead and has come back to life; he was lost and has been found. "And they began to rejoice.
And her eldest son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house, he heard music and dance.
And calling one of the servants, he asked him what it was all about.
And he said to him, "Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has received it safely."
So he got mad and didn't want to go inside. His father came out and begged him to come in.
But he answered and said to the father: "Look, for so many years I have served you and I have never disobeyed any order of yours, and yet you have never given me a kid to rejoice with my friends;
But when this son of yours came, who has consumed your possessions with harlots, you killed for him the fattened calf. "
And he said to him: "My son, you have always been with me, and all that is mine is yours.
But it was necessary to celebrate and rejoice, because this, your brother, was dead and has returned to life; he was lost and has been found. "
Jesus also said to the disciples: There was a certain rich man who had a steward; and he was accused before him of squandering his property.
Then he called him and said: "What is this I hear about you? Be accountable for your administration, because you can not be more steward."
And the butler said to himself: "What shall I do? Well, my lord is taking the administration from me. I have no strength to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from the administration they will receive me at their homes. "
And calling each of his lord's debtors, he said to the first, "How much do you owe my lord?"
And he said, "One hundred barrels of oil." And he said: "Take your bill, sit down soon and write fifty."
Then he said to another, "And how much do you owe?" And he replied, "One hundred measures of wheat." He said to her *: "Take your bill and write eighty."
The lord praised the unjust steward because he had acted with shrewdness, for the children of this century are more shrewd in relations with their fellow men than the children of light.
And I say to you: Make friends through unjust riches, so that when they are lacking, they will welcome you into the eternal dwellings.
He who is faithful in very little is faithful also in much; and he who is unjust in very little is also unjust in much.
Therefore, if you have not been faithful in the use of unjust riches, who will entrust you with true riches?
And if you have not been faithful in the use of what is foreign, who will give you what is yours?
No servant can serve two masters, because either he will hate one and love the other, or he will be attached to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth.
The Pharisees, who were money lovers, heard all these things and made fun of Him.
And He said to them: You are the ones who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts, because what is highly esteemed among men, abominable is before God.
The law and the prophets were proclaimed until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God has been announced, and everyone has been striving to enter it.
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, for an iota of the law to cease to be fulfilled.
Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery; and whoever marries her who is divorced from her husband commits adultery.
There was a certain rich man who was dressed in purple and fine linen, celebrating lavishly every day.
And a poor man named Lazarus lay at his door covered in sores,
longing to be satisfied with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table; also, even the dogs came and licked the sores.
And it came to pass that the poor man died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom; And the rich man also died and was buried.
In Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and saw Abraham in the distance, and Lazarus in his bosom.
And shouting, he said: "Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip his fingertip in water and refresh my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame."
But Abraham said to him: "Son, remember that during your life you received your goods, and Lazarus, equally, evils; but now he is comforted here, and you are in agony.
And in addition to all this, there is a great chasm between us and you, so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, and no one can cross from there to us either. "
So he said, "I beg you, then, father, to send him to my father's house,
for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them, so that they too may not come to this place of torment. "
But Abraham said *: "They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them."
And he said, "No, father Abraham, but if anyone goes to them from the dead, they will repent."
But Abraham replied: "If you do not listen to Moses and the prophets, you will not be persuaded if anyone rises from the dead."
And Jesus said to his disciples: It is inevitable that stumbles come, but woe to him through whom they come!
It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea than to trip one of these little ones.
Be careful! If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
And if he sins against you seven times a day, and comes back to you seven times, saying, "I repent," forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord: Increase our faith!
Then the Lord said: If you had faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this sycamore: "Root out and plant yourself in the sea." And I would obey you.
Which of you has a servant plowing or herding sheep, and when he returns from the field, says to him, "Come at once and sit down to eat"?
Wouldn't he rather say to her: "Prepare me something for dinner, and dress appropriately, and serve me until I have eaten and drunk; and then you will eat and drink yourself"?
Does he thank the servant for doing what he was told to do?
So you too, when you have done all that you have been commanded, say, "We are useless servants; we have done only what we should have done."
And it came to pass that as he was on his way to Jerusalem, he passed between Samaria and Galilee,
and upon entering a certain village, ten leprous men met him, who stood at a distance,
And they raised their voices, saying: Jesus, Master! Have mercy on us!
When He saw them, He said to them: Go and show yourselves to the priests. And it happened that while they were going, they were clean.
Then one of them, seeing that he had been healed, turned, glorifying God with a loud voice.
And he fell on his face at the feet of Jesus, giving him thanks; and this was a Samaritan.
Jesus answered and said: Were not ten those who were cleansed? And the other nine, where are they?
Was there not one who returned to give glory to God, except this stranger?
And he said to him: Arise and go; Your faith has healed you.
When the Pharisees asked him when the kingdom of God would come, Jesus answered them, and said: The kingdom of God does not come with visible signs,
nor will they say, "Look, here it is!" or: "There it is!" For behold, the kingdom of God is among you.
And he said to the disciples: Days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
And they will say to you: "Look there! Look here!" Don't go or run after them.
For as lightning flashes from one end of heaven to the other end of heaven when it flashes, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
But first it is necessary that He suffer a lot and be rejected by this generation.
Just as it happened in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the Son of Man.
They ate, drank, married, and married, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
It was the same thing that happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
but the day Lot left Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
The same will happen the day the Son of Man is revealed.
On that day, whoever is on the roof and has his goods at home, do not go down to take them; and likewise, whoever is in the field does not go back.
Remember Lot's wife.
Everyone who tries to preserve his life will lose it; and whoever loses it will keep it.
I tell you that on that night there will be two in one bed; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding in the same place; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two will be in the field; one will be taken and the other will be left.
And they answered and said to him, "Where, Lord? And He said to them: Where the body is, there the vultures will also gather.
And Jesus told them a parable to teach them that they should pray at all times, and not lose heart,
Saying: There was in a certain city a judge who neither feared God nor respected any man.
And there was a widow in that city, who came to him constantly, saying: "Do me justice for my adversary."
For some time he did not want to, but later he said to himself: "Although I neither fear God nor respect any man,
however, because this widow bothers me, I will do her justice; lest by coming continually I run out of patience. "
And the Lord said: Hear what the unjust judge said.
And will not God do justice to His elect, who cry out to Him day and night? Will it take a long time to respond?
I tell you, it will soon do them justice. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?
He also related this parable to some who trusted themselves as righteous, and despised others:
Two men went up to the temple to pray; one was a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
The Pharisee on his feet, prayed to himself in this way: "God, I thank you that I am not like other men: swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector.
I fast twice a week; I tithe everything I earn. "
But the tax collector, standing and at a distance, did not even want to raise his eyes to heaven, but hit his chest, saying: "God, have mercy on me, sinner."
I tell you that this one went down to his house justified but that one did not; For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
And they even brought very young children to touch them, but when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.
But Jesus, calling them to his side, said: Let the children come to me, and do not stop them, because of those who are like these is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, he who does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And a certain prominent man asked him, saying: Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Jesus answered him: Why do you call me good? No one is good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: "DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, DO NOT KILL, DO NOT HURT, DO NOT MAKE A FALSE TESTIMONY, HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER".
And he said: All this I have kept from my youth.
When Jesus heard this, he said to him: You still lack one thing; sell everything you have and distribute among the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But when he heard this, he was very sad, because he was extremely rich.
Looking at him, Jesus said: How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Those who heard this said, "And who can be saved?"
And He replied: The impossible for men is possible for God.
And Peter said: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
Then He said to them: Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left a house, or a woman, or brothers, or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
may he not receive many times more in this time, and in the age to come, eternal life.
Taking the twelve aside, Jesus said to them, "Look, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be fulfilled.
For it will be delivered to the Gentiles, and it will be mocked, insulted, and spit upon;
and after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise again.
But they did not understand any of this; This saying was hidden from them, and they did not understand what was being said to them.
And it came to pass that as he approached Jericho a blind man was sitting by the road begging.
Hearing a crowd go by, he asked what it was.
And they informed him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing.
Then he cried out, saying: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And those who went before rebuked him to be silent; but he shouted much more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
Jesus stopped and ordered that it be brought to him; and when he was close, he asked:
What do you want me to do for you? And he said, Lord, let him see again.
Jesus then said to him: Receive your sight, your faith has healed you.
And immediately his sight returned, and he continued to glorify God; When all the people saw that, they gave glory to God.
Jesus having entered Jericho, was passing through the city.
And a man named Zacchaeus, who was head of the tax collectors and was wealthy,
I was trying to see who Jesus was; but he could not because of the crowd, since he was small in stature.
And running ahead, he got on a sycamore to see him, because Jesus was about to pass by.
When Jesus arrived at the place, he looked up and said: Zacchaeus, hurry up and come down, because today I must stay at your house.
Then he hastened to descend and received him with joy.
And when they saw this, they all murmured, saying: He has gone to stay with a sinful man.
And Zacchaeus, standing up, said to the Lord: Behold, Lord, I will give half of my goods to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone, I will give it back fourfold.
And Jesus said to him: Today salvation has come to this house, since he is also the son of Abraham;
because the Son of Man has come to seek and save what was lost.
As they were hearing these things, Jesus continued, saying a parable, because He was near Jerusalem and they thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear from one moment to another.
So he said: A certain man of noble family went to a far country to receive a kingdom for himself and then return.
And calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas and said, "Negotiate with this until I return."
But his citizens hated him, and they sent a delegation after him, saying, "We don't want this one to reign over us."
And it came to pass that when he returned, after having received the kingdom, he sent for his servants to whom he had given the money, to find out what they had gained by negotiating.
And the first one appeared, saying: "Sir, your mine has produced ten more mines."
And he said to him, "Well done, good servant, since you have been faithful in very little, have authority over ten cities."
Then the second came, saying, "Your mine, sir, has produced five mines."
And he also said to this: "And you are going to be over five cities."
And another came, saying: "Lord, here is your mine, which I have kept in a handkerchief;
because I was afraid of you, because you are a demanding man, who collect what you did not deposit and harvest what you did not sow. "
He replied *: "Useless servant, by your own words I am going to judge you. Did you know that I am a demanding man, that I collect what I did not deposit and I reap what I did not sow?
So why didn't you put my money in the bank, and when I came back, I would have received it with the interest? "
And he said to those who were present: "Take the mine away from him and give it to him who has the ten mines."
And they said to him: "Sir, he already has ten mines."
I tell you that to anyone who has, more will be given, but whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken away.
But these my enemies, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and kill them before me.
Having said this, he went ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, near the mount called of Olives, he sent two of the disciples,
saying: Go to the village opposite, in which, upon entering, you will find a tied colt on which no one has ever ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone asks you: "Why do you untie him?", In this way you will speak: "Because the Lord needs it."
Then the envoys went and found Him as He had told them.
While they untied the colt, their owners said to them: Why do you untie the colt?
And they answered: Because the Lord needs it.
And they brought him to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they put Jesus on him.
And as He advanced, they spread their cloaks on the road.
As he was approaching, next to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a loud voice for all the wonders they had seen,
saying: BLESSED THE KING THAT COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD! Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!
Then some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him: Master, rebuke your disciples.
He answered and said: I tell you that if they remain silent, the stones will cry out.
When he got closer, when he saw the city, he cried over it,
saying: If you had also known on this day what leads to peace! But now it is hidden from your eyes.
For days will come upon you, when your enemies will throw down an embankment before you, besiege and harass you everywhere.
And they will bring you down to the ground, and your children within you, and they will not leave you stone on stone, because you did not know the time of your visitation.
And entering the temple, he began to cast out those who sold,
saying to them: It is written: "AND MY HOUSE WILL BE A HOUSE OF PRAYER", but you have made it CAVE OF THIEVES.
And he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests, the scribes, and the most prominent of the people tried to kill him;
and they could not find a way to do it, because all the people were waiting for Him, listening to Him.
Because many have tried to compile a history of things that are very true between us,
as they have been transmitted to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word,
It seemed convenient to me too, after having diligently investigated everything from the beginning, to write them in order, Your Excellency Theophilus,
so you know the precise truth about the things that have been taught to you.
In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a certain priest named Zacharias, from the group of Abijah, who had as his wife one of the daughters of Aaron named Elizabeth.
Both were righteous before God, and conducted themselves blamelessly in all the commandments and precepts of the Lord.
They had no children, because Elizabeth was sterile, and they were both elderly.
But it happened that while Zacharias was exercising his priestly ministry before God according to the order indicated to his group,
In accordance with the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the Lord's temple and burn incense.
And all the multitude of the people was praying outside at the time of the incense offering.
And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense.
Seeing him, Zacharias was troubled, and fear seized him.
But the angel said to him: Do not be afraid, Zacharias, because your request has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will give you a son, and you will call him John.
And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth.
For he will be great before the Lord; He will drink neither wine nor liquor, and will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb.
And he will bring back many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God.
And he will go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah TO MAKE THE HEARTS OF THE FATHERS RETURN TO THE CHILDREN, and to the disobedient to the attitude of the righteous, in order to prepare for the Lord a well-disposed people.
Then Zacharias said to the angel: How can I know this? Because I am old and my wife is elderly.
The angel answered and said to him: I am Gabriel, who is in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and announce this good news.
And behold, you will remain silent, and you will not be able to speak until the day when all this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in due time.
And the people were waiting for Zacharias, and they were surprised at his delay in the temple.
But when he came out, he couldn't speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple; and he spoke to them with signs, and remained silent.
And when the days of his priestly service were completed, he returned home.
And after these days, Elizabeth his wife conceived, and secluded herself for five months, saying:
Thus has the Lord acted with me in the days when he deigned to look at me to remove my affront among men.
And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth,
a virgin betrothed to a man named Joseph, of David's descendants; and the virgin's name was Maria.
And when the angel entered, he said: Hail, very favored! The Lord is with you; blessed are you among women.
But she was greatly troubled by these words, and wondered what kind of greeting this would be.
And the angel said to her: Fear not, Mary, because you have found grace before God.
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will name him Jesus.
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David;
and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end.
Then Mary said to the angel: How will this be, since I am a virgin?
The angel answered and said to him: The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will cover you with his shadow; therefore the holy Child who will be born will be called the Son of God.
And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son; and this is the sixth month for her, the one they called sterile.
Because nothing will be impossible for God.
Then Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be done to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.
In those days Mary got up and hurried to the mountainous region, to a city of Judah;
and entered into Zacharias's house and greeted Elizabeth.
And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the creature leaped into her womb; and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,
And she cried out with a loud voice and said: Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
Why has this happened to me, that the mother of my Lord comes to me?
Because behold, as soon as the voice of your greeting reached my ears, the creature jumped for joy in my belly.
And blessed is she who believed that what was said to her by the Lord will be fulfilled.
Then Mary said: My soul magnifies the Lord,
and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior.
Because he has looked at the humble condition of this his servant; for behold, from now on all generations will consider me blessed.
Because great things the Mighty One has done to me; and holy is his name.
AND FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION IS HIS MERCY TO THOSE WHO FEAR HIM.
He has done feats with his arm; it has scattered the proud in the thought of their hearts.
He has removed the mighty from their thrones; and has exalted the humble;
HE HAS FILLED THE HUNGRY WITH GOODS and has fired the rich with empty hands.
He has helped Israel, his servant, in remembrance of his mercy
just as he said to our parents, to Abraham and to his descendants forever.
And Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months, and then returned to her home.
When Elizabeth's time for delivery was complete, she gave birth to a son.
And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown his great mercy towards her; and they rejoiced with her.
And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the boy, and they were going to call him Zacharias after his father's name.
But the mother answered, and said: No, but his name will be Juan.
And they said to him: There is no one in your family who has that name.
So they asked the father what he wanted to call him.
And he asked for a tablet and wrote the following: His name is Juan. And everyone was amazed.
Instantly his mouth was opened and he released his tongue, and he began to speak praising God.
And fear came over all who lived around him; and all these things were discussed throughout the mountainous region of Judea.
And all who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What then will this child become? Because the hand of the Lord was certainly with him.
And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied saying:
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, because he has visited us and made redemption for his people,
and he has raised up a horn of salvation in the house of David his servant,
as announced by the mouths of his holy prophets from ancient times,
salvation FROM OUR ENEMIES and FROM THE HAND OF ALL WHO HATE US;
to show mercy to our parents, and to remember their holy covenant,
the oath he made to our father Abraham:
grant us that, delivered from the hand of our enemies, we serve him without fear
in holiness and justice before Him, all our days.
And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go BEFORE THE LORD TO PREPARE HIS WAYS;
to give his people the knowledge of salvation by the forgiveness of their sins,
by the tender mercy of our God, with which the Dawn will visit us from above,
TO GIVE LIGHT TO THOSE WHO LIVE IN DARKNESS AND IN THE SHADOW OF DEATH, to guide our feet on the path of peace.
And the child grew and was strengthened in spirit; and he lived in deserted places until the day he appeared to Israel in public.
And it came to pass that on one of the days when He was teaching the people in the temple and announcing the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes were confronted with the elders,
And they spoke to him, saying, Tell us, by what authority do you do these things, or who gave you this authority?
He answered and said to them: I will also ask you a question; tell me:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?
And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say: "Why didn't you believe him?"
But if we say: "Of men", all the people will stone us to death, because they are convinced that John was a prophet.
And they replied that they did not know where he was from.
Jesus then said to them: Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
And he began to tell the people this parable: A man planted a vineyard, and leased it to farmers, and he went away for a long time.
And at the time of the harvest he sent a servant to the farmers to give him part of the fruit of the vineyard; but the farmers, after beating him, sent him empty-handed.
He sent another servant again; and they, too, after beating him and outraging him, sent him empty-handed.
He resubmitted a third party; and this one they also wounded and cast out.
Then the owner of the vineyard said: "What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him."
But when the farmers saw it, they reasoned among themselves, saying: "This is the heir; let's kill him so that the inheritance is ours."
And throwing him out of the vineyard, they killed him. So what will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy these farmers, and he will give the vineyard to others. And when they heard this, they said: Such a thing never happens!
But He, looking at them intently, said: Then, what does this mean that is written: "THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BEEN CORNERED"?
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken; and the one on whom she falls will scatter it like dust.
The scribes and the chief priests tried to lay hands on him at that very hour, but they feared the people; because they understood that he had spoken this parable against them.
And stalking him, they sent spies who pretended to be fair, to surprise him with some declaration in order to hand him over to the power and authority of the governor.
And they asked him, saying: Master, we know that you speak and teach righteously, and you are not guided by appearances, but you truly teach the way of God.
Is it lawful for us to pay tax to Caesar, or not?
But He, perceiving their cunning, said to them:
Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it carry? And they said to him: Of Caesar.
Then He said to them: Well give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
And they could not surprise him in any way before the people; and amazed at his response, they fell silent.
And some of the Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) approached him, they asked him,
Saying: Master, Moses wrote to us: "IF THE BROTHER OF SOMEONE DIES, having a WOMAN, AND DOES NOT LEAVE CHILDREN, let HIS BROTHER TAKE THE WOMAN AND RAISE HIS BROTHER UP."
So there were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and died without leaving children;
and the second
and the third took it; and in the same way also the seven, and died without leaving children.
Finally, the woman also died.
Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife will she be? Because the seven had her as a wife.
And Jesus said to them: The children of this age marry and are given in marriage,
but those who are considered worthy to reach that century and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage;
because they cannot die anymore, because they are like angels, and they are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
But that the dead are raised, even Moses taught it, in that passage on the burning bush, where he calls to the Lord, THE GOD OF ABRAHAM, AND THE GOD OF ISAAC, AND THE GOD OF JACOB.
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; because everyone lives for Him.
And some of the scribes answered and said: Master, you have spoken well.
Because they no longer dared to ask him anything.
Then He said to them: How is it that they say that the Christ is the son of David?
For David himself says in the book of Psalms: THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD: "SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND,
UNTIL I PUT YOUR ENEMIES BY THE STRIP OF YOUR FEET. "
David therefore calls him "Lord". How then is He your son?
While all the people listened, he said to the disciples:
Beware of scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and are fond of respectful greetings in the squares, and of taking the first seats in synagogues and places of honor at banquets;
who devour widows' houses, and for appearances make long prayers; they will receive further condemnation.
Looking up, Jesus saw the wealthy throwing their offerings into the treasure chest.
And he also saw a poor widow throwing there two small copper coins;
and said: Truly I say to you, that this poor widow threw more than all of them;
Because they all threw in the offering of what was left over, but she, out of her poverty, threw out everything she had to live on.
And while some were talking about the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive offerings, Jesus said:
As for these things that you are looking at, the days will come when there will not be a stone on a stone that will not be knocked down.
And they asked him, saying, Master, when will this happen, and what sign will there be when these things will happen?
And He said: See that you are not deceived; because many will come in my name, saying: "I am the Christ", and: "The time is near". Don't follow them.
And when you hear of wars and riots, don't panic; because these things have to happen first, but the end will not happen immediately.
Then he said to them: Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom;
there will be great earthquakes, and plagues and famines in various places; and there will be terrors and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for my name's sake.
This will give you an opportunity to testify.
Therefore, propose in your hearts not to prepare your defense beforehand;
for I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or refute.
But you will be delivered even by parents, brothers, relatives and friends; and they will kill some of you,
and you will be hated by all because of my name.
However, not a hair on your head will perish.
With your perseverance you will win your souls.
But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near.
Then those who are in Judea, flee to the mountains, and those who are in the middle of the city, stay away; and those who are in the fields, do not enter it;
because these are days of revenge, so that all the things that are written are fulfilled.
Woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days! For there will be a great calamity on earth, and anger for this people;
and they will fall by the edge of the sword, and they will be taken captive to all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden under foot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in the sun, in the moon, and in the stars, and on the earth, anguish among the nations, perplexed by the roar of the sea and the waves,
men fainting with fear and expectation of things to come on the world; for the powers of heaven will be shaken.
And then they will see THE SON OF MAN COMING IN A CLOUD with power and great glory.
When these things begin to happen, stand up and raise your heads, because your redemption is coming.
And he told them a parable: Look at the fig tree and all the trees.
When the leaves are already sprouting, when you see it, you know for yourself that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
Be on the alert, lest your heart be burdened with dissipation and drunkenness and with the cares of life, and that day suddenly come upon you like a snare;
for it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
But watch at all times, praying that you have strength to escape all these things that are about to happen, and you can stand before the Son of Man.
During the day he taught in the temple, but at dusk he would go out and spend the night on the hill called Olives.
And all the people got up early to go to the temple to listen to him.
The feast of unleavened bread, called Easter, was approaching.
And the main priests and scribes were looking for how to kill Jesus, because they feared the people.
Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, who belonged to the number of twelve;
and he went and discussed with the chief priests and with the officers how he would be delivered.
They were happy and agreed to give him money.
He accepted, and was looking for an opportunity to hand him over, without making a fuss.
The day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread arrived, when the Passover lamb was to be sacrificed.
Then Jesus sent Peter and John, saying: Go and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat it.
They said to him: Where do you want us to prepare it?
And He answered them, Behold, when you enter the city, a man will come to meet you, carrying a pitcher of water; follow him to the house where he enters.
And you will say to the owner of the house: "The Master says to you:" Where is the room, in which I can eat Easter with my disciples? "".
Then he will show you a great room, high, ready; prepare it there.
So they went and found everything just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
When the hour came, he sat at the table, and with him the apostles,
And he said to them: I have desired to eat this Passover with you before suffering;
because I tell you that I will never eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And having a drink, after giving thanks, he said: Take this and divide it among yourselves;
For I tell you that from now on I will not drink the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
And having taken bread, after having given thanks, he broke it, and gave it to them, saying: This is my body which is given for you; Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way he took the cup after supper, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you.
But behold, the hand of the bearer is with me on the table.
For in truth, the Son of Man goes as determined, but woe to that man by whom He is delivered!
Then they began to argue among themselves which of them would be the one to do this.
An altercation also arose between them, about which of them should be considered the greatest.
And Jesus said to them: The kings of the Gentiles rule over them; and those who have authority over them are called benefactors.
But it is not so with you; Before, the greatest among you become as the least, and the one who leads as the one who serves.
Because which is greater, the one who sits at the table, or the one who serves? Is not he who sits at the table? However, among you I am like the one who serves.
You are the ones who have stayed with me in my trials;
and just as my Father has granted me a kingdom, I grant you
that you eat and drink at my table in my kingdom; and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Simon, Simon, see that Satan has claimed you to shake you like wheat;
but I have prayed for you so that your faith does not fail; and you, once you have returned, strengthen your brothers.
And Peter said to him: Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death.
But Jesus said to him: I tell you, Peter, that the rooster will not crow today until you have denied three times that you know me.
And he said to them: When I sent you without a bag, or a saddlebag, or sandals, was there anything missing? And they answered: No, nothing.
Then he said to them: But now, whoever has a bag, let him carry it with him, in the same way also a saddlebag, and whoever does not have a sword, sell his cloak and buy one.
Because I tell you that it is necessary for me to fulfill what is written: "AND WITH THE TRANSGRESSORS HE WAS TOLD"; Well, certainly, as regards me, it has its fulfillment.
And they said, Lord, look, here are two swords. And He said to them: It is enough.
And leaving, he went, as usual, to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed him.
When he arrived at the place, he said to them: Pray that you do not enter temptation.
And he withdrew from them like a stone's throw, and kneeling down, he prayed,
saying: Father, if it is your will, take this cup away from me; but not my will, but yours be done.
Then an angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him.
And being in agony, he prayed with great fervor; and his sweat became like thick drops of blood, falling on the ground.
When he got up from praying, he went to the disciples and found them asleep because of sadness,
And he said to them: Why do you sleep? Arise and pray that you will not be tempted.
While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and approached Jesus to kiss Him.
But Jesus said to him: Judas, do you give the Son of Man with a kiss?
And when those around Jesus saw what was going to happen, they said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Jesus answered and said: Stop! Enough of this. And touching the servant's ear, he healed him.
Then Jesus said to the chief priests, to the temple officials, and to the elders who had come against Him: Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a thief?
When I was with you every day in the temple, you did not lay hands on me; but this hour and the power of darkness are yours.
Having arrested him, they took him away and led him to the high priest's house; but Pedro followed him from afar.
After they lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and sat together, Peter sat among them.
And a servant girl, seeing him sitting by the fire, paying close attention to him, said: This man was also with him.
But he denied it, saying: Woman, I don't know him.
A little later, when another one saw him, he said: You are also one of them! But Pedro said: Man, isn't it!
After about an hour, another insisted, saying: Certainly this one was also with Him, because he is also a Galilean.
But Pedro said: Man, I don't know what you're talking about. And instantly, while he was still talking, a rooster crowed.
Then the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said to him: Before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times.
And going out, he wept bitterly.
The men who had Jesus in custody made fun of him and beat him;
and blindfolded him, they asked him, saying: Guess who is the one who hit you?
They also said many other things against Him, blaspheming.
When daylight came, the council of the village elders gathered, both the chief priests and the scribes, and they brought Jesus before their council, saying:
If you are the Christ, tell us. But He said to them: If I tell you, you will not believe;
and if I ask you, you will not answer.
But from now on, THE SON OF MAN WILL BE SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND of the power of GOD.
They all said: So, you are the Son of God? And He answered them: You say that I am.
And they said: What need do we already have of testimony? For we ourselves have heard it from his own mouth.
Then all their assembly arose, and they brought Jesus before Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying: We have found that he perverts our nation, forbidding to pay tax to Caesar, and saying that He himself is Christ, a King.
Pilate then asked him, saying: Are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus answering him said: You say so.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and to the crowd: I find no crime in this man.
But they insisted, saying: He disturbs the people, teaching throughout Judea, starting from Galilee to here.
When Pilate heard this, he asked if the man was a Galilean.
Knowing that Jesus belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he referred him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem in those days.
When Herod saw Jesus, he was very happy, since he had wanted to see him for a long time because of what he had heard about him, and he expected to see some sign that he did.
And he questioned him extensively, but Jesus did not answer him.
The chief priests and scribes were also there, vehemently accusing him.
Then Herod, with his soldiers, after treating him with contempt and mocking him, dressed him in a splendid robe and sent him back to Pilate.
That same day Herod and Pilate became friends, for they had been at enmity with one another before.
Then Pilate called the chief priests, the rulers, and the people,
And he said to them: You have presented this man to me as one who incites the people to rebellion, but having questioned him before you, I have found no crime in this man of the accusations you make against him.
Neither did Herod, for he has sent it back to us; and behold, nothing has made him deserve death.
Therefore, after punishing him, I will release him.
And he had an obligation to release a prisoner at each party.
But all of them shouted at one, saying: Get away with this one, and release Barabbas to us!
(He had been thrown into prison for an uprising in the city, and for murder.)
Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, spoke to them again,
but they kept shouting, saying: Crucify him! Crucify Him!
And he said to them the third time: Why? What wrong has this done? I have not found in Him any crime worthy of death; therefore I will punish him and release him.
But they insisted, crying out loudly for him to be crucified. And their voices began to dominate.
Then Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
And he released the one they asked for, the one who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, but he delivered Jesus to their will.
When they took him away, they took a certain Simon of Cyrene who was coming from the field and put the cross on him to carry him behind Jesus.
And he was followed by a great crowd of the people and of women who wept and wailed for him.
But Jesus, turning to them, said: Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; cry rather for yourselves and for your children.
For behold, the days are coming when they will say: "Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never conceived, and the breasts that never nursed."
Then they will begin TO SAY TO THE MOUNTAINS: "FALL ON US"; AND TO THE COLLADOS: "COVER US".
Because if they do this in the green tree, what will happen in the dry?
And they also took two others, who were criminals, to be killed with Him.
When they arrived at the place called "La Calavera", they crucified Jesus and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left.
And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, because they don't know what they are doing. And they cast lots, dividing their dresses among themselves.
And the people were there watching; and even the rulers mocked Him, saying, He saved others; may he save himself if this is the Christ of God, his Chosen One.
The soldiers also mocked Him, reaching out and offering Him vinegar,
and saying: If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself.
There was also an inscription on Him, which said: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the criminals who were hanging there hurled insults at him, saying: Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!
But the other replied, and rebuking him, said: Do you not even fear God even though you are under the same sentence?
And we to the truth, precisely, because we receive what we deserve for our actions; but this has done nothing wrong.
And he said: Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.
Then He said to him: Truly I say to you: today you will be with me in paradise.
It was about the sixth hour, when darkness descended on all the earth until the ninth hour
at eclipsing the sun. The temple veil was torn in two.
And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said: Father, IN YOUR HANDS I COMMIT MY SPIRIT. And having said that, he sighed.
When the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying: Certainly, this man was innocent.
And when all the crowds that had gathered to witness this spectacle, observing what had happened, they turned, hitting their chests.
But all his acquaintances and the women who had accompanied him from Galilee were at a certain distance seeing these things.
And there was a man named Joseph, a member of the council, a good and just man
(who had not agreed to the plan and the actions of others) who was from Arimathea, city of the Jews, and who expected the kingdom of God.
This went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus,
And lowering him, he wrapped him in a linen cloth, and placed him in a grave carved out of the rock where no one had yet been laid.
It was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was about to begin.
And the women who had come with Him from Galilee followed behind, and they saw the grave and how the body was placed.
And when they returned, they prepared aromatic spices and perfumes.
But on the first day of the week, at dawn, the women came to the tomb bringing the aromatic spices they had prepared.
And they found that the stone had been removed from the grave,
and when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass that being they perplexed by this, suddenly two men stood beside them in shining garments;
And when they were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them: Why do you look for the living among the dead?
He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee,
saying that the Son of Man should be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.
So they remembered his words,
And returning from the grave, they announced all these things to the eleven and to all the others.
They were María Magdalena and Juana y María, Jacobo's mother; the other women with them also referred these things to the apostles.
And to them these words seemed like nonsense, and they did not believe them.
But Peter got up and ran to the grave; and bending down to look inside, he saw * only the linen wraps; and he went home, amazed at what had happened.
And behold, that same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, which was about eleven kilometers from Jerusalem.
And they talked among themselves about all these things that had happened.
And it happened that while they were talking and arguing, Jesus himself came up and walked with them.
But his eyes were blurred so that they did not recognize him.
And He said to them: What are these discussions that you have among yourselves while you are walking? And they stopped, looking sad.
Responding one of them, named Cleophas, said to him: Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened in these days?
Then He said to them: What things? And they said to him: Those referring to Jesus the Nazarene, who was a powerful prophet in deed and in word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to death and crucified him.
But we hoped that He was the one who was going to redeem Israel. But in addition to all this, this is the third day since these things happened.
And also some women among us amazed us; because when they went to the grave at dawn,
and when they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen an appearance of angels who said that He lived.
Some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had also said; but they did not see Him.
Then Jesus said to them: O foolish and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have said!
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer all these things and enter into his glory?
And beginning with Moses and continuing with all the prophets, he explained the reference to Him in all the Scriptures.
They approached the village where they were going, and He pretended to go further.
And they urged him, saying: Stay with us, because it is getting dark, and the day has already declined. And he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he was sitting at the table with them, that he took bread, and blessed it; and breaking it, he gave them.
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him; but He disappeared from their presence.
And they said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us as he spoke to us on the road, when he opened the Scriptures to us?
And rising up in that very hour, they returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together,
who said: It is true that the Lord has risen and appeared to Simon.
And they related their experiences on the road, and how they had recognized him in the breaking of bread.
As they related these things, Jesus stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you.
But they, terrified and scared, thought they saw a spirit.
And He said to them: Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your heart?
Look at my hands and my feet, for I am myself; Feel me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh or bones as you see that I have.
And when he said this, he showed them his hands and feet.
As they still did not believe it because of the joy and they were amazed, he said to them: Do you have something to eat here?
Then they presented him with part of a roasted fish.
And He took it and ate in front of them.
And he said to them: This is what I was saying to you when I was still with you: that it was necessary to fulfill everything that is written about me in the law of Moses, in the prophets and in the psalms.
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
And he said to them: Thus it is written, that the Christ suffered and rose from the dead on the third day;
and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
You are witnesses to these things.
And behold, I will send upon you the promise of my Father; but you, remain in the city until you are endowed with power from on high.
Then he led them out of the city, to near Bethany, and raising his hands, blessed them.
And it came to pass that while he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
They, after worshiping him, returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and they were always in the temple praising God.
And it happened in those days that an edict was issued by Caesar Augustus, so that a census of the entire inhabited world could be made.
This was the first census to be taken when Cyreneus was governor of Syria.
And they were all heading to register for the census, each to his city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David,
to register together with Maria, married to him, who was pregnant.
And it happened that while they were there, the days of her delivery were fulfilled.
And she gave birth to her firstborn son; He wrapped him in diapers and put him to bed in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn.
In the same region there were shepherds who were in the field, tending their flocks during the night vigils.
And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord surrounded them with brightness, and they were greatly afraid.
But the angel said to them: Do not fear, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people;
for today in the city of David a Savior was born to you, who is Christ the Lord.
And this will serve as a sign: you will find a child wrapped in diapers and lying in a manger.
And suddenly a multitude of the heavenly armies appeared with the angel, praising God and saying:
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men in whom He is pleased.
And it came to pass that when the angels went to heaven, the shepherds said to one another: Let us therefore go to Bethlehem and see what has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.
They went in a hurry, and found Mary and Joseph, and the Child lying in the manger.
And when they saw it, they made known what they had been told about this Child.
And all who heard it marveled at the things that were told to them by the shepherds.
But Mary treasured all these things, reflecting on them in her heart.
And the shepherds turned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, just as they had been told.
When the eight days were completed to circumcise him, they named him Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
When the days for their purification were fulfilled, according to the law of Moses, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord
(as it is written in the Law of the Lord: EVERY MALE WHO OPENS THE MATRIX WILL BE CALLED HOLY FOR THE LORD),
and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord: A PAIR OF TORTOLS OR TWO PICKS.
And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; and this man, just and pious, awaited the consolation of Israel; and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
And by the Holy Spirit it had been revealed to him that he would not see death without first seeing the Lord's Christ.
Moved by the Spirit, he went to the temple. And when the parents of the child Jesus brought him to fulfill for him the rite of the law,
he took the Child in his arms, and blessed God and said:
Now, Lord, allow your servant to go in peace, according to your word;
because my eyes have seen your salvation
which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples;
LIGHT OF REVELATION TO THE GENTILES, and glory of your people Israel.
And the boy's parents were amazed at the things that were said about him.
Simeon blessed them, and said to his mother Mary: Behold, this Child has been set up for the fall and rise of many in Israel, and to be a sign of contradiction
(and a sword will pierce even your own soul) so that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was a prophetess, Ana, daughter of Fanuel, from the tribe of Asher. She was very old, and had lived with her husband seven years after their marriage,
and after widow, until the age of eighty-four. He never left the temple, serving night and day with fasts and prayers.
And when she arrived at that precise moment, she thanked God and spoke of Him to all those who awaited the redemption of Jerusalem.
Having fulfilled everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their city of Nazareth.
And the Child grew and became strong, filling himself with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon Him.
His parents used to go to Jerusalem every year for the Feast of the Passover.
And when he was twelve years old, they went up there according to the custom of the party;
and when they returned, after having passed all the days of the feast, the boy Jesus remained in Jerusalem without his parents knowing it,
and assuming he was in the caravan, they walked one day, and began to look for him among relatives and acquaintances.
When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem looking for him.
And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them, and asking them questions.
And everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers.
When his parents saw him, they were amazed; And his mother said to him: Son, why have you treated us this way? Look, your father and I have been looking for you full of anguish.
Then He said to them: Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that it was necessary for me to be in my Father's house?
But they did not understand the words that He had spoken to them.
And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and continued to be subject to them. And his mother treasured all these things in her heart.
And Jesus grew in wisdom, in stature, and in grace towards God and men.
In the fifteenth year of the empire of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod the tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip the tetrarch of the Iturea and Traconite region, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilinia,
During the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the desert.
And he went throughout the region next to the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins;
as it is written in the book of the words of the prophet Isaiah: VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "PREPARE THE WAY OF THE LORD, MAKE HIS PATHS RIGHT.
EVERY VALLEY WILL BE FILLED, AND EVERY MOUNT AND HILL REDUCED; WHAT IS TWISTED WILL BE STRAIGHT, AND THE ROUGH PATHWAYS WILL BECOME PLAIN ROADS;
AND EVERY FLESH WILL SEE GOD'S SALVATION. "
So he said to the crowds who came for him to baptize them: Litter of vipers! Who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance; And don't start saying to yourself: "We have Abraham for a father", because I tell you that God can raise children to Abraham from these stones.
And also the ax is already placed at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
And the crowds asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
He answered and said to them: He who has two robes, share with him who does not have; and the one who has to eat, do the same.
Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said, "Master, what shall we do?"
Then he answered them: Do not demand more than what you have been ordered.
Also some soldiers asked him, saying: And we, what will we do? And he said to them, "Extort no one, nor falsely accuse anyone, and be content with your wages."
As the people were waiting, and everyone wondered in their hearts about John, if he would not be the Christ,
John answered, saying to all: I baptize you with water; but the one who is more powerful than me is coming; to whom I am not worthy to untie the strap of his sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
The pitchfork is in your hand to completely clean your threshing floor and collect the wheat in your barn; but it will burn the chaff in unquenchable fire.
And also with many other exhortations, John announced the good news to the people.
But Herod the tetrarch, being rebuked by him because of Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evils Herod had done,
He also added to all of them, this one: that he locked Juan in jail.
And it came to pass that when all the people were baptized, Jesus was also baptized: and while He prayed, heaven was opened,
and the Holy Spirit descended on Him in bodily form, like a dove, and a voice came from heaven, saying: You are my beloved Son, in you I have been pleased.
And when he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about thirty years old, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, who was the son of Eli,
and Elí, by Matat; Matat, by Leví; Levi, from Melqui; Melqui, from Jana; Jana, from José;
José, from Mattathias; Mattathias of Amos; Amos of Nahum; Nahúm, by Esli; Esli, from Nagai;
Nagai of Maat; Maat, from Mattathias; Mattathias, by Semei; Semei, by José; Joseph of Judah;
Judah of Joana; Joana, from Resa; Resa, by Zerubbabel; Zerubbabel, from Salatiel; Salatiel, from Neri;
Neri, from Melqui; Melqui, from Adi; Adi, from Cosam; Cosam, from Elmodam; Elmodam, from Er;
Er, by Josué; Joshua of Eliezer; Eliezer of Jorim; Jorim, from Matat; Matat, by Leví;
Levi of Simeon; Simeon of Judah; Judah of Joseph; José, by Jonán; Jonán, from Eliaquim;
Eliaquim, from Melea; Melea, from Mainán; Mainán, from Matata; Matata, by Natán; Nathan of David;
David, by Jesse; Jesse of Obed; Boed's Obed; Boaz, from Salmon; Salmon, from Naasón;
Naasón, of Aminadab; Aminadab, from Admin; Admin, by Aram; Aram, from Esrom; Esrom, by Fares; Pharaohs of Judah;
Judah from Jacob; Jacob of Isaac; Isaac of Abraham; Abraham of Terah; Taré, from Nacor;
Nacor, from Serug; Raug's Serug; Ragau, by Peleg; Heber's Peleg; Heber, from Sala;
Sala, by Cainán; Cainán, from Arfaxad; Arfaxad, from Sem; Shem, from Noah; Noah by Lamec;
Lamec, from Methuselah; Methuselah of Enoch; Enoch by Jared; Jared of Mahalaleel; Mahalaleel, from Cainan;
Cainan, from Enos; Enos of Set; Set, from Adam; and Adam, from God.
Jesus, filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the desert
for forty days, being tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days, after which he was hungry.
Then the devil said to him: If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread.
Jesus replied: It is written: "NOT ONLY OF BREAD WILL MAN LIVE."
Taking him to a height, the devil showed him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world.
And the devil said to him: All this dominion and its glory I will give you; Well, it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I want.
Therefore, if you bow down before me, everything will be yours.
Jesus answered and said to him: It is written: "YOU SHALL WORSHIP THE LORD YOUR GOD, AND YOU WILL ONLY SERVE."
Then the devil took him to Jerusalem and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him: If you are the Son of God, jump down from here,
for it is written: "TO HIS ANGELS HE WILL COMMIT YOU TO GUARD YOU",
and: "THEY WILL TAKE YOU IN THE HANDS, UNLIKE YOUR FOOT BREAKS IN STONE".
Jesus answered and said to him: It has been said: "YOU WILL NOT TEMPT THE LORD YOUR GOD."
When the devil had finished all temptation, he turned away from Him, waiting for an opportune time.
Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit, and the news about Him spread throughout that region.
And he taught in his synagogues, being praised by all.
He came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and according to his custom, entered the synagogue on the Sabbath, and rose to read.
They gave him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and opening the book, he found the place where it was written:
THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD IS UPON ME, BECAUSE HE HAS ANOINTED ME TO ANNOUNCE THE GOSPEL TO THE POOR. HE HAS SENT ME TO PROCLAIM FREEDOM TO THE CAPTIVES, AND THE RECOVERY OF THE SIGHT TO THE BLIND; TO RELEASE THE OPPRESSED;
TO PROCLAIM THE LORD'S FAVORABLE YEAR.
Closing the book, he returned it to the assistant and sat down; and everyone's eyes in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
And he began to say to them: Today this Scripture that you have heard has been fulfilled.
And they all spoke well of Him and marveled at the graceful words that came out of his mouth, and said: Is not this the son of Joseph?
Then He said to them: No doubt you will quote me this saying: "Physician, heal yourself"; that is, everything we hear that has been done in Capernaum, do it also here in your land.
And he said: Truly I say to you, that no prophet is well received in his own land.
But in truth I tell you: there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when heaven was closed for three years and six months and when there was a great famine over all the earth;
and yet to none of them was Elijah sent, but to a widow of Sarepta, in the land of Sidon.
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, but none of them was cleansed, but Naaman the Syrian.
And everyone in the synagogue was filled with anger when they heard these things,
And rising up, they cast him out of the city, and brought him to the top of the mountain on which his city was built, to cast him down.
But He, passing through their midst, left.
And he went down to Capernaum, the city of Galilee. And he taught them on the Sabbath days;
and they admired his teaching because his message was authoritative.
And there was a man in the synagogue possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice:
Leave us, what have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
Jesus then rebuked him, saying: Shut up and get out of him! And after the demon knocked him down in their midst, he came out of it without doing him any harm.
And they were all amazed, and they argued among themselves, saying: What message is this? Because with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits and they go out.
And his fame spread everywhere in the surrounding region.
And getting up, he left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. And Simon's mother-in-law was suffering from a very high fever, and they begged for her.
And leaning over her, he rebuked the fever, and the fever left her; and instantly she got up and served them.
At sunset, all those who were sick with various diseases took them to Him; and putting his hands on each one of them, he healed them.
Demons also came out of many, shouting and saying: You are the Son of God! But, rebuking them, He did not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ.
When daylight came, he went out and went to a lonely place; And the crowds were looking for Him, and they got to where He was and tried to stop Him so that He would not separate from them.
But He said to them: Also to the other cities I must announce the good news of the kingdom of God, because for this I have been sent.
And he preached in the synagogues of Judea.
And it came to pass that as the multitude gathered upon Him to hear the word of God, Jesus being by the lake of Genesaret,
He saw two boats standing on the shore of the lake, but the fishermen had gotten out of them and washed the nets.
Getting into one of the boats, which belonged to Simon, he asked to be separated from the land a little; and sitting down, he taught the crowds from the boat.
When he finished speaking, he said to Simon: Go to the deepest part and cast your nets to fish.
Simon answered and said: Master, we have been working all night and we have not caught anything, but because you ask, I will cast the nets.
And when they did, they locked up a large number of fish, so that their nets broke;
they then signaled to their companions who were in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, in such a way that they sank.
Seeing this, Simon Peter fell at the feet of Jesus, saying: Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man!
Because the astonishment had seized him and all his companions, by the round-up of fish they had made;
The same thing happened to James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon: Fear not; from now on you will be a fisher of men.
And after bringing the boats ashore, leaving everything behind, they followed him.
And it came to pass that while Jesus was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy; and when she saw Jesus, she fell on his face and asked him, saying: Lord, if you want, you can clean me.
Jesus stretched out his hand and touched it, saying: I want to; Be clean. And instantly the leprosy left him.
And He commanded her not to tell anyone. But go on, "he said," show yourself to the priest and give an offering for your purification as Moses ordered, to serve as a testimony.
And his fame spread more and more, and large crowds gathered to hear him and be healed of his illnesses.
But often He would go to solitary places and pray.
And one day that He was teaching, there were sitting there some Pharisees and teachers of the law who had come from all the villages of Galilee and Judea, and from Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was with Him to heal.
And behold, some men brought on a stretcher a man who was paralyzed; and they tried to put it in and put it in front of Jesus.
And finding no way to get him in because of the crowd, they went up to the roof and brought him down with the stretcher through the roof, putting him in the middle, in front of Jesus.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said: Man, your sins are forgiven.
Then the scribes and Pharisees began to speak, saying: Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but only God?
Knowing his thoughts, Jesus answered and said to them: Why do you run in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up and walk"?
Well, so that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he said to the paralytic): To you I say: Get up, take your mat and go home.
And immediately he got up before them, took the stretcher on which he had been lying, and went home glorifying God.
And amazement seized everyone and they glorified God; and they were filled with fear, saying: Today we have seen extraordinary things.
After this, Jesus went out and noticed a tax collector named Levi, sitting in the tax office, and said to him: Follow me.
And he, leaving everything, got up and followed him.
And Levi offered him a great banquet in his house; and there was a large group of tax collectors and others sitting at the table with them.
And the Pharisees and their scribes complained to Jesus' disciples, saying: Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
Jesus answered and said to them: The healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick.
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
And they said to him: John's disciples fast frequently and pray; Those of the Pharisees also do the same, but yours eat and drink.
Then Jesus said to them: Can you make the groom's companions fast while the groom is with them?
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, then they will fast in those days.
He also told them a parable: No one cuts a piece of a new dress and puts it on an old dress; because then the new one will break, and the piece of the new one will not harmonize with the old one.
And no one pours new wine into old wineskins, because then new wine will break the wineskins and spill them, and the wineskins will be lost,
but the new wine must be poured into new wineskins.
And nobody, after drinking old wine, wants new wine, because they say: "The old is better."
And it came to pass that one Sabbath day Jesus was passing through some fields, and his disciples were plucking and eating ears of corn, rubbing them in their hands.
But some of the Pharisees said: Why do you do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?
Jesus answered them, "Have you not even read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him;
How did he enter the house of God, and take and eat the consecrated loaves, that it is not lawful for anyone to eat but only the priests, and he also gave to his companions?
And he said to them: The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
And on another Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught; And there was a man with a dry right hand.
And the scribes and Pharisees watched Jesus closely to see that he was healed on the Sabbath, to find out what to accuse him of.
But He knew what they were thinking, and said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and come here. And he, getting up, approached him.
Then Jesus said to them: I ask you: is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil; save a life or destroy it?
And after looking at everyone around him, he said to the man: Extend your hand. And he did so, and his hand was healed.
But they were filled with anger, and they discussed among themselves what they could do to Jesus.
In those days He went to the mountain to pray, and spent the whole night in prayer to God.
When daylight came, he called his disciples and chose twelve of them, whom he also gave the name of apostles:
Simon, whom Peter also called, and Andrew his brother; Jacobo and Juan; Felipe and Bartolomé;
Mateo and Tomás; James, son of Alphaeus, and Simon, whom they called the Zealot;
Judas, son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
He went down with them and stopped in a flat place; and there was a great multitude of his disciples, and a great multitude of the people, of all Judea, of Jerusalem, and of the coastal region of Tire and Sidon,
that they had come to hear him and to be healed of his diseases; and those who were tormented by unclean spirits were cured.
And the whole crowd tried to touch him, because from Him came a power that healed everyone.
Turning his eyes to his disciples, he said: Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Blessed are you when men hate you, when they separate you from themselves, shower you with insults and reject your name as evil because of the Son of Man.
Rejoice in that day and jump for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for your parents treated the prophets in the same way.
But woe to you rich people, because you are already receiving all your comfort.
Woe to you who are now satisfied, because you will be hungry. Woe to you who are laughing now !, because you will regret and cry.
Woe to you, when all men speak well of you! For the same way their parents treated false prophets.
But to you who hear, I say: love your enemies; do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you; pray for those who revile you.
To the one who strikes you on the cheek, also present the other; And whoever takes your cloak from you, do not deny the robe either.
To everyone who asks you, give, and to the one who takes away what is yours, do not claim it.
And just as you want men to do to you, do to them the same way.
If you love those who love you, what credit do you have? Because sinners also love those who love them.
If you do good to those who do good to you, what merit do you have? Because sinners also do the same.
If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit do you have? Sinners also lend to sinners to receive the same amount from them.
Rather, love your enemies, and do well, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High; because He is kind to the ungrateful and wicked.
Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.
Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Give, and it will be given to you; good measure, tight, shaken and overflowing, they will empty into your lap. Because with the measurement with which you measure, it will be measured again.
He also told them a parable: Can a blind man guide another blind man? Will they not both fall into a hole?
A disciple is not above his teacher; but every disciple, after he has prepared himself well, will be like his teacher.
And why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, and you do not realize the beam that is in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, "Brother, let me take the speck out of your eye," when you yourself don't see the beam in your eye? Hypocrite! First remove the beam from your eye and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother's eye.
Because there is no good tree that produces bad fruit, nor conversely, bad tree that produces good fruit.
For each tree by its fruit is known. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they harvest grapes from a bush.
The good man, from the good treasure of his heart, brings out what is good; and the bad man, out of the bad treasure, brings out what is bad; for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
And why do you call me "Lord, Lord" and do not do what I say?
Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and puts them into practice, I will show you who he is like:
He is like a man who, in building a house, dug deep and laid a foundation in the rock; and when a flood came, the torrent hit the house hard, but could not move it because it had been well built.
But he who has heard and has done nothing is like a man who built a house on the ground without laying a foundation; and the torrent hit with force and instantly it collapsed, and the ruin of that house was great.
When Jesus finished all his words to the people who heard him, he went to Capernaum.
And the servant of a certain centurion, whom he greatly appreciated, was ill and about to die.
Hearing of Jesus, the centurion sent to him some elders of the Jews, asking him to come and save his servant.
When they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying: The centurion is worthy of your granting this;
Because he loves our people and it was he who built us the synagogue.
Jesus was going with them, but when he was no longer far from the house, the centurion sent some friends, saying: Lord, do not bother anymore, because I am not worthy that you enter under my roof;
that's why I didn't even consider myself worthy to come to you, just say the word and my servant will be healed.
For I too am a man placed under authority, and I have soldiers under my command; and I say to this one: "Go", and he goes; and to another: "Come", and he comes; and to my servant, "Do this," and he does it.
Hearing this, Jesus marveled at him, and turning, he said to the crowd that followed him, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith."
And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant healthy.
It happened shortly after Jesus went to a city called Nain; and his disciples went with him accompanied by a large crowd.
And when he approached the city gate, behold, they brought out a dead man, his mother's only son, and she was a widow; and a large group from the city was with her.
When he saw her, the Lord had compassion on her, and said to her: Don't cry.
And he came and touched the coffin; and those who carried it stopped. And Jesus said: Young man, I say to you: Get up!
He who had died sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.
Fear seized everyone, and they glorified God, saying: A great prophet has arisen among us, and: God has visited his people.
And this saying that was said about Him, spread throughout Judea and throughout the surrounding region.
Then John's disciples informed him of all these things.
And John calling two of his disciples, he sent them to the Lord, saying: Are you the one to come, or are we waiting for another?
When the men came to Him, they said: John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying: "Are you the one who is to come, or are we waiting for another?"
In that same hour he cured many of diseases and afflictions, and evil spirits, and he gave sight to many blind men.
And He answering said to them: Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: THE BLIND RECEIVE THE SIGHT, the lame walk, the lepers are clean and the deaf hear, the dead are RISEN and the GOSPEL IS ANNOUNCED TO THE POOR .
And blessed is he who is not scandalized by me.
When John's messengers left, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? See, those who dress in splendor and live in delight are in the palaces of kings.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and one who is more than a prophet.
This is the one of whom it is written: "BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY BEFORE YOU."
I tell you that among those born of women, there is no one older than Juan; however, the smallest in the kingdom of God is greater than him.
When all the people and the tax collectors heard him, they recognized the justice of God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the interpreters of the law rejected God's purposes for them, by not being baptized by John.
To what, then, will I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like?
They are similar to the boys who sit in the plaza and call each other, saying: "We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang lays, and you did not cry."
Because John the Baptist has come, who does not eat bread or drink wine, and you say: "He has a devil."
The Son of Man has come, who eats and drinks, and you say: "Look, a gluttonous man and a wine drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners."
But wisdom is justified by all her children.
One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him; And entering the house of the Pharisee, he sat down at the table.
And behold, there was a woman in the city who was a sinner, and when she found out that Jesus was sitting at the table in the Pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster bottle with perfume;
and getting behind him at his feet, crying, he began to water his feet with tears and dried them with the hairs of his head, kissed his feet and washed them with the perfume.
But when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself: If this were a prophet, he would know who and what kind of woman is touching him, who is a sinner.
And Jesus answering said to him: Simon, I have something to tell you: And he said *: Say, Master.
A certain lender had two debtors; one owed him five hundred denarii and the other fifty;
Not having anything to pay with, he generously forgave them both. Which of them, then, will love you the most?
Simon answered and said: I suppose the one who forgave him the most. And Jesus said to him: You have judged correctly.
And turning to the woman, he said to Simon: Do you see this woman? I entered your house and you did not give me water for my feet, but she has showered my feet with her tears and dried them with her hair.
You did not kiss me, but she, since I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet.
You didn't anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume.
Therefore I tell you that his sins, which are many, have been forgiven, because he loved very much; but who is forgiven little, loves little.
And to her he said: Your sins have been forgiven.
Those who were sitting at the table with Him began to say to each other: Who is this who even forgives sins?
But Jesus said to the woman: Your faith has saved you, go in peace.
And soon after, He began to tour the cities and villages, proclaiming and announcing the good news of the kingdom of God; with him were the twelve,
and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and diseases: Mary, called Magdalena, from whom seven demons had come out,
and Juana, Chuza's wife, Herod's steward, and Susana, and many others who contributed to their support from their personal property.
When a large crowd had gathered, and those who came to Him from various cities, He spoke to them in a parable:
The sower went out to sow his seed; And when he sowed it, a part fell along the road, and it was trampled and the birds of the sky ate it.
Another part fell on the rock, and as soon as it grew, it dried up, because it had no moisture.
Another part fell among the thorns; and the thorns, growing with it, drowned it.
And another part fell on good soil, and grew and produced a hundred-for-one harvest. And speaking these things, Jesus exclaimed: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
His disciples asked him what this parable meant,
And He said: To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the others I speak in parables, so that SEEING, THEY DO NOT SEE; AND HEARING, DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
The parable is this: the seed is the word of God.
And those along the way are the ones who have heard, but then the devil comes and snatches the word from their hearts, lest they believe and be saved.
And those on the rock are the ones who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no deep root; they believe for some time, and at the moment of temptation they succumb.
And the seed that fell among the thorns, these are the ones that have heard, and as they continue on their way they are drowned by the worries, riches and pleasures of life, and its fruit does not ripen.
But the seed in the good soil, these are those who have heard the word with a good and upright heart, and retain it, and bear fruit with their perseverance.
No one lights a lamp and covers it with a pot, or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a candlestick so that those who enter see the light.
For there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, and no secret that is not to be known and come to light.
Therefore, be careful how you hear; for to the one who has, the more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he believes he has will be taken from him.
So his mother and brothers got to where He was, but they couldn't get close to Him because of the crowd.
And they warned him: Your mother and your brothers are outside and want to see you.
But He answered and said to them: My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.
And one of those days, he entered a boat with his disciples, and said to them: Let's go to the other side of the lake. And they went to sea.
But while they were sailing, He fell asleep; and a violent storm descended on the lake, and they began to flood and were in danger.
And coming to Him, they woke Him up, saying: Master, Master, we are perishing! And He, rising up, rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and the calm stopped.
And He said to them: Where is your faith? But they were terrified and amazed, saying to each other: Who, then, is this who even commands the winds and the water and obeys him?
They sailed to the land of the Gadarenes which is on the opposite side of Galilee;
And when He came ashore, a man from the city, possessed by demons, met him and had not worn any clothing for a long time, nor lived in a house, but in the graves.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell before Him, and said in a loud voice: What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you not to torment me.
Because He commanded the unclean spirit to come out of man, because many times he had seized him, and he was bound with chains and shackles and under guard; in spite of everything he broke the bonds and was impelled by the demon to the deserts.
Then Jesus asked him: What is your name? And he said: Legion; Because a lot of demons have entered him.
And they begged him not to order them to go into the abyss.
And there was a herd of many pigs grazing there in the bush; and the demons begged him to allow them to enter the pigs. And He gave them permission.
The demons came out of the man and entered the pigs; and the herd rushed down the cliff into the lake, and they drowned.
And when those who cared for them saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the fields.
Then the people went out to see what had happened; And they came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone forth, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were filled with fear.
And those who had seen it told them how the demonized man had been healed.
Then all the people in the region around the Gadarenes asked Jesus to stay away from them, because they were in great fear. And He entering a boat, returned.
But the man from whom the demons had come begged him to allow him to accompany him; but He dismissed him, saying:
Go back to your house, and tell how great things God has done for you. And he left, proclaiming throughout the city how great things Jesus had done for him.
When Jesus returned, the crowd received him with joy, because everyone had been waiting for him.
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, who was a synagogue officer; and falling at the feet of Jesus he begged him to enter his house;
Because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, who was on the verge of death. But as He went, the crowd pressed on Him.
And a woman who had had a blood flow for twelve years and who had spent everything she had on doctors and could not be cured by anyone,
He approached Jesus from behind and touched the edge of his cloak, and instantly the flow of his blood ceased.
And Jesus said: Who is it that has touched me? While everyone denied it, Peter said, and those who were with him: Master, the crowds squeeze you and oppress you.
But Jesus said: Someone touched me, because I realized that power had come from me.
When the woman saw that she had not gone unnoticed, he came trembling, and falling before Him, he declared in the presence of all the people the reason why he had touched him, and how he had been instantly healed.
And He said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace
While he was still speaking, * someone * came from the synagogue officer's house, saying: Your daughter is dead; don't bother the Master anymore.
But when Jesus heard it, he replied: Do not be afraid; believe only, and she will be healed.
And when He arrived at the house, He did not allow anyone to enter with Him except Peter, John and James, and the girl's father and mother.
They all mourned and lamented her; but He said: Do not cry, because he is not dead, but sleeps.
And they mocked Him, knowing that she had died.
But He, taking her by the hand, cried out, saying: Child, get up!
Then his spirit returned to him, and he arose at once, and He commanded that they give him food.
And her parents were amazed; but He charged them not to tell anyone what had happened.
Gathering the twelve together, he gave them power and authority over all demons and to heal diseases.
And he sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And he said to them: Take nothing for the journey, neither staff, nor saddlebag, nor bread, nor money; nor have two robes each.
In any house where you enter, stay there, and be there your exit.
And as for those who do not receive you, when you leave that city, shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them.
So they went out, and they went through the villages announcing the gospel and healing everywhere.
Herod the tetrarch found out everything that was happening, and he was very perplexed, because some said that John had risen from the dead,
others that Elijah had appeared, and others that some prophet of the ancients had risen.
Then Herod said: I made John decapitate; Who, then, is this from whom I hear such things? And I tried to see him.
And when the apostles returned, they gave Jesus an account of everything they had done. And He, taking them with him, withdrew to a city called Bethsaida.
But when the people realized this, they followed him; and Jesus, receiving them, spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and healed those who needed to be healed.
The day began to decline, and the twelve approached, they said to him: Say goodbye to the crowd, so that they can go to the surrounding villages and fields, find accommodation and get food; because here we are in a desert place.
But He said to them: Give them something to eat. And they said: We have only five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people.
(Because there were about five thousand men.) And Jesus said to his disciples: Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.
They did so, making everyone sit down.
And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, raised his eyes to heaven, blessed them, and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to serve to the people.
They all ate and were satisfied; And they collected from what was left of the pieces: twelve full baskets.
And while Jesus prayed alone, the disciples were with him, and he asked them, saying: Who do the crowds say that I am?
Then they answered and said: Some, John the Baptist, others, Elijah, and others, that some prophet of the ancients has risen.
And He said to them: And who do you say that I am? And Peter answering said: The Christ of God.
But He, warning them severely, commanded them not to say this to anyone,
saying: The Son of Man must suffer greatly, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and rise again on the third day.
And he said to everyone: If anyone wants to come after me, deny yourself, take up your cross every day and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life because of me will save it.
Well, what use is it to a man to have won the whole world, if he himself is destroyed or lost?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his glory, and that of the Father, and that of the holy angels.
But in truth I tell you that there are some of those who are here, who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God.
And about eight days after these words, Jesus took Peter, John, and James with him, and went up the mountain to pray.
As he prayed, the appearance of his face became different, and his clothing became white and glowing.
And behold, two men were talking to Him, which were Moses and Elijah,
who appearing in glory spoke of the departure of Jesus, which He was about to accomplish in Jerusalem.
Peter and his companions had been overcome by sleep, but when they were wide awake, they saw the glory of Jesus and the two men who were with him.
And it happened that when they withdrew from Him, Peter said to Jesus: Master, it is good that we are here; Let's make three branches, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah; not knowing what he was saying.
Then, as he said this, a cloud formed that covered them; and they were afraid to enter the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my Son, my Chosen One; Hear him.
After the voice was heard, Jesus was found alone. They kept it to themselves, and in those days they did not tell anyone about what they had seen.
And it happened that the next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him.
And behold, a man from the crowd shouted, saying: Master, I beg you to see my son, for he is the only one I have,
and it happens that a spirit seizes him, and suddenly he cries out, and the spirit makes him fall with convulsions, foaming; and bruising him, she hardly turns away from him.
So I begged your disciples to cast him out, and they couldn't.
Jesus answered and said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long must I be with you and bear you? Bring your son here.
As it approached, the demon knocked him down and made him fall with convulsions. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy and returned him to his father.
And everyone was amazed at the greatness of God. While everyone was amazed at all the things he did, Jesus said to his disciples:
Make these words penetrate your ears, because the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.
But they did not understand these words, and they were veiled so that they did not understand them; and they were afraid to ask him about them.
And a discussion arose between them, about which of them would be the greatest.
Then Jesus, knowing what they were thinking in their hearts, took a child and put him by his side,
And he said to them, Whoever receives this child in my name receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me; because the one who is smallest among all of you, that one is great.
And John answering said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in your name, and we tried to prevent him because he is not with us.
But Jesus said to him: Do not stop him; for he who is not against you is with you.
And it happened that when the days of his ascension were fulfilled, He, with determination, affirmed his face to go to Jerusalem.
And he sent messengers before him; and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him.
But they did not receive him, because they knew that he had determined to go to Jerusalem.
Seeing this, his disciples James and John said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?
But He turned and rebuked them, and said: You do not know what spirit you are from,
for the Son of Man has not come to destroy the souls of men, but to save them. And they went to another village.
And while they were on the road, one said to him: I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him: Foxes have burrows and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
To another he said: Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me go first to bury my father.
But He said to him: Let the dead bury their dead; but you, go and announce everywhere the kingdom of God.
Another also said: I will follow you, Lord; but first let me say goodbye to those in my house.
But Jesus said to him: No one who, after putting his hand to the plow, looks back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
Rising from there, Jesus went * to the region of Judea and across the Jordan; and the crowds * gathered again together with Him, and once more, as He was accustomed, He taught them.
And some Pharisees came to him, and to test him, they asked him if it was lawful for a man to divorce his wife.
And He answering said to them, What did Moses command you?
And they said: Moses allowed the man to write LETTER OF DIVORCE AND TO REPUT IT.
But Jesus said to them: Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this commandment.
But from the beginning of creation, God MADE THEM MALE AND FEMALE.
FOR THIS REASON MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND HIS MOTHER,
AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH; therefore they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has united, no man separates.
And already in the house, the disciples asked him again about this.
And He said to them *: Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her;
and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they brought him children to touch; and the disciples rebuked them.
But when Jesus saw this, he was outraged and said to them: Let the children come to me; do not prevent it, for of those who are like these is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it.
And taking them in his arms, he blessed them, laying his hands on them.
As he was leaving to go on his way, one came running, and kneeling before him, he asked him: Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? No one is good, but only one, God.
You know the commandments: "DO NOT KILL, DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, DO NOT HURT, DO NOT MAKE A FALSE TESTIMONY, do not disappoint, HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER".
And he said to him: Master, all this I have kept from my youth.
Looking at him, Jesus loved him and said: One thing you lack: go and sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But he, saddened by these words, left sad, because he owned many goods.
Looking around, Jesus * said to his disciples: How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answering again, said to them *: Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
They were even more amazed, saying to each other: And who can be saved?
Looking at them Jesus said *: It is impossible for men, but not for God, because all things are possible for God.
Then Peter began to say to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you.
Jesus said: Truly I say to you: There is no one who has left a house, or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children or land because of me and because of the gospel,
may he not receive a hundred times more now at this time: houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands along with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them; and they were perplexed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve aside again, he began to tell them what was going to happen to him:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the Gentiles.
And they will mock Him and spit on Him, scourge Him and kill Him, and three days later He will rise again.
And Jacob and John, the two sons of Zebedee, approached him, saying: Master, we want you to do for us what we ask of you.
And He said to them: What do you want me to do for you?
They said to him, Grant that in your glory we may sit one on your right and the other on your left.
But Jesus said to them: You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the cup that I drink, or be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?
And they said to him: We can. And Jesus said to them: The cup that I drink, you will drink; and you will be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized,
but whoever you sit on my right or on my left, it is not mine to grant it, but it is for those who have been prepared.
Hearing this, the ten began to be indignant against James and John.
And calling them to himself, Jesus said to them *: You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and that their great ones exercise authority over them.
But among you it is not so, but any of you who wants to become great will be your servant,
and anyone of you who wishes to be the first will be a servant to all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
Then they * came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to shout and say: Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And many rebuked him to be silent, but he cried much more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
And Jesus stopped and said: Call him. And they called * the blind man, saying: Cheer up! Get up, he calls you.
And throwing down his cloak, he jumped up and went to Jesus.
And turning to him, Jesus said to him: What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man answered him: Raboni, let him recover his sight.
And Jesus said to him: Go, your faith has healed you. And instantly his sight returned, and he followed him down the road.
As they approached * Jerusalem, by Bethphage and Bethany, near the Mount of Olives, he sent * two of his disciples,
And he said to them, "Go to the village in front of you, and as soon as you enter it, you will find a tied colt on which no one has yet ridden; untie him and bring him.
And if someone says to you: "Why are you doing that?", Say: "The Lord needs it"; and it will be returned here right away.
They went and found a colt tied by the door, outside on the street, and they untied it *.
And some of those who were there said to them: What are you doing untying the colt?
They answered them just as Jesus had told them, and gave them permission.
So they brought * the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and Jesus sat on it.
And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread branches that they had cut from the fields.
Those who went ahead and those who followed him shouted: Hosanna! BLESSED IS HE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD;
Blessed the kingdom of our coming father David; Hosanna in the high!
And he entered Jerusalem, came to the temple, and after looking at everything around him, he left for Bethany with the twelve, the hour being late.
The next day, when they left Bethany, Jesus was hungry.
And seeing from afar a fig tree with leaves, he went to see if perhaps he could find something in it; when he reached it, he found nothing but leaves, because it was not the time for figs.
And Jesus, speaking to the fig tree, said to him: Never again should anyone eat fruit of you, and his disciples were listening to him.
* Came to Jerusalem; And when Jesus entered the temple he began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple, overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold the doves;
and he did not allow anyone to transport any object through the temple.
And he taught them, saying: Is it not written: "MY HOUSE SHALL BE CALLED A HOUSE OF PRAYER FOR ALL NATIONS"? But you have made it CAVE OF THIEVES.
The chief priests and scribes heard this and were looking for ways to destroy him, because they were afraid of him, for the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching.
And when it got dark, they used to go out of town.
In the morning, as they passed, they saw the dried fig tree from the roots.
Then Peter, remembering, said to him: "Rabbi, look, the fig tree that you cursed has dried up.
And Jesus answered *, saying: Have faith in God.
Truly I say to you that anyone who says to this mountain: "Take off and throw yourself into the sea", and do not doubt in your heart, but believe that what you say is going to happen will be granted.
That is why I tell you that all the things for which you pray and ask, believe that you have already received them, and they will be granted to you.
And when you are praying, forgive if you have something against someone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive your transgressions.
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions.
* They came back to Jerusalem; and when Jesus was walking through the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders approached him,
and they said to him: By what authority do you do these things, or who gave you the authority to do this?
And Jesus said to them: I will also ask you a question; Answer it for me, and then I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me
And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say: "Then why didn't you believe him?"
But if we say: "Of men"? But they feared the crowd, because everyone considered that John had truly been a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said *: We do not know. And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Then he began to speak to them in parables: A man PLANTED A VINEYARD AND FENCED IT WITH A WALL, DIGGED A POND UNDER THE WINERY AND BUILT A TOWER; he leased it to farmers and went on a trip.
At the time of the harvest he sent a servant to the farmers to receive from the farmers their share of the fruits of the vineyard.
But they, seizing him, beat him and sent him empty-handed.
Again another servant sent them, and they struck him in the head and treated him shamefully.
And he sent another and they killed him; and so with many others, beating some and killing others.
He still had one left, a beloved son; And he sent the latter, saying, "They will respect my son."
But those farmers said to each other: "This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours!"
And seizing him, they killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
What, then, will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the farmers, and he will give the vineyard to others.
Have you not even read this Scripture: "THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BECOME A CORNER STONE;
THIS WAS DONE FROM THE LORD, AND IS IT WONDERFUL TO OUR EYES "?
And they tried to catch him, but they feared the crowd, because they understood that he had told the parable against them. And leaving him, they left.
And they sent him * some of the Pharisees and the Herodians to surprise him in a word.
And when they arrived *, they said to him: "Master, we know that you are truthful and that you do not seek the favor of anyone, because you are impartial, and you teach the way of God with truth. Is it legal to pay tax to Caesar, or not?
Will we pay or not pay? But He, realizing their hypocrisy, said to them: Why are you testing me? Bring me a denarius to see it.
They brought it to him, and He * said to them: Whose is this image and the inscription? And they said to him: Of Caesar.
Then Jesus said to them, Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's. And they marveled at Him.
And some Sadducees (those who say there is no resurrection) approached him *, and asked him, saying:
Master, Moses left us written: IF THE BROTHER OF SOMEONE DIES and leaves a woman AND DOES NOT LEAVE A SON, THAT HIS BROTHER TAKE THE WOMAN AND RAISE DESCENT TO HIS BROTHER.
There were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and died leaving no offspring.
And the second took it, and died without leaving offspring; and also the third;
and so the seven, without leaving offspring. And finally the woman also died.
In the resurrection, when they are resurrected, whose wife will they be? Well, the seven had her as a wife.
Jesus said to them: Is this not the reason why you are mistaken: that you do not understand the Scriptures or the power of God?
For when they rise from the dead, they will neither marry nor be given in marriage, but will be like the angels in heaven.
And as for the dead rising, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage on the burning bush, how God spoke to him, saying: "I AM THE GOD OF ABRAHAM, AND THE GODS OF ISAAC, AND THE GOD FROM JACOB "?
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; you are very wrong.
When one of the scribes approached, he heard them arguing, and recognizing that he had answered them well, he asked him: Which commandment is the most important of all?
Jesus replied: The most important is: "LISTEN, ISRAEL; THE LORD OUR GOD, THE LORD IS ONE;
AND YOU SHALL LOVE THE LORD YOUR GOD WITH ALL YOUR HEART, AND WITH ALL YOUR SOUL, AND WITH ALL YOUR MIND, AND WITH ALL YOUR STRENGTH. "
The second is this: "YOU WILL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF". There is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scribe said to him: Very well, Master; with truth you have said that HE IS ONE, AND THERE IS NO OTHER THAN HIM;
AND THAT TO LOVE HIM WITH ALL YOUR HEART AND WITH ALL UNDERSTANDING AND WITH ALL FORCES, AND LOVING YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF, is more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices.
When Jesus saw that he had answered wisely, he said: You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that, no one ventured to ask him any more questions.
And taking the word, Jesus said while teaching in the temple: Why do the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?
David himself said by the Holy Spirit: "THE LORD SAID TO MY LORD:" SIT AT MY RIGHT HAND, UNTIL I PUT YOUR ENEMIES UNDER YOUR FEET. "
David himself calls him "Lord". In what sense, then, is your son? And the great crowd listened to him with pleasure.
And in his teaching he said: Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and love respectful greetings in the squares,
the first seats in synagogues and places of honor at banquets;
who devour widows' houses, and for appearances make long prayers; these will receive greater condemnation.
Jesus sat in front of the treasure chest, and watched the crowd pour money into the treasure chest; and many rich people threw large amounts.
And a poor widow came and threw two small copper coins, that is, a quadrant.
And calling his disciples, he said to them: Truly I say to you, that this poor widow threw more than all the taxpayers into the treasury;
Because they all threw out what they had left, but she threw out of her poverty everything she owned, everything she had to live on.
As he was leaving the temple, one of his disciples * said to him: Master, look at what stones and what buildings!
And Jesus said to him: Do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, which shall not be overthrown.
And when He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, in front of the temple, Peter, James, John and Andrew asked him in private:
Tell us, when will this happen, and what sign will there be when all these things are to be accomplished?
And Jesus began to say to them: See that no one deceives you.
Many will come in my name saying, "I am the Christ," and they will deceive many.
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; All this needs to happen, but it is not the end yet.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be earthquakes in various places; and there will be famines. This is just the beginning of the pain.
But be alert; for they will deliver you up to the courts and you will be scourged in the synagogues, and you will appear before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them.
But first the gospel must be preached to all nations.
And when they take you and deliver you, do not worry in advance about what you are going to say, but what is given to you at that hour, speak that way; for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents, and will kill them.
And you will be hated by all because of my name, but whoever endures to the end will be saved.
But when you see the ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION placed where it should not be (whoever reads, who understands), then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
and whoever is on the roof, do not go down or enter to get anything out of your house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
But, woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days!
Pray that this does not happen in the winter.
For those days will be one of tribulation, just as it has not happened since the beginning of God's creation until now, nor will it ever happen.
And if the Lord had not shortened those days, no one would be saved; but because of the elect that He chose, He shortened the days.
So if someone says to you: "Look, here is the Christ", or: "Look, there he is", do not believe him.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show signs and wonders in order to mislead, if possible, the elect.
But you, be alert; See that I have told you everything beforehand.
But in those days, after that tribulation, THE SUN WILL DARK AND THE MOON WILL NOT GIVE ITS LIGHT,
THE STARS WILL FALL FROM HEAVEN and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
Then they will see THE SON OF MAN COMING IN THE CLOUDS with great power and glory.
And then he will send the angels, and will gather his elect from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of the sky.
From the fig tree learn the parable: when its branch is already tender and leaves its leaves, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that He is near, at the doors.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
Be alert, watch; because you don't know when the appointed time is.
He is like a man who went on a trip, and when he left his house he left his servants in charge, assigning each one his task, and ordered the doorman to be alert.
Therefore, keep watch, because you do not know when the lord of the house comes, whether at dusk, or at midnight, or at the crowing of the rooster, or at dawn;
lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch!
Two days were left before Easter and the feast of unleavened bread; and the chief priests and scribes sought how to deceive him and kill him;
because they said: Not during the party, lest there be a riot in the town.
And while He was in Bethany, sitting at the table in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came with an alabaster bottle of very expensive perfume of pure tuberose; and he broke the jar and poured it on the head of Jesus.
But some were outraged and said to each other: What was this waste of perfume made for?
Because this perfume could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given the money to the poor. And they rebuked her.
But Jesus said: Leave her; Why do you bother her? You have done a good deed with me.
Because you will always have the poor with you; and when you want you can do them good; but you won't always have me.
She has done what she could; he has anticipated anointing my body for burial.
And truly I say to you: Wherever the gospel is preached in the whole world, it will also speak of what it has done, to his memory.
Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to deliver Jesus to them.
When they heard it, they were happy and promised to give him money. And he was looking for how to deliver him at an opportune moment.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb was being sacrificed, his disciples said to him, * Where do you want us to go and make arrangements for you to eat Easter?
And he sent * two of his disciples, and said to them *: Go into the city, and there a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you; follow him;
and where he enters, tell the owner of the house: "The Master says:" Where is my room where I can eat Easter with my disciples? "".
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and prepared; make preparations for us there.
So the disciples went out and came to the city, and found everything just as He had told them; and they prepared the Passover.
In the evening * He arrived with the twelve.
And while sitting at the table eating, Jesus said: Truly I tell you, one of you will hand me over; the one who eats with me.
They began to get sad and say one by one: Is it me?
And He said to them: It is one of the twelve, the one that dips with me in the plate.
Because the Son of Man leaves as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.
And while they were eating, he took bread, and having blessed it, he broke it, gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body.
And having a drink, after giving thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it.
And he said to them: This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed by many.
Truly I say to you, I will no longer drink the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
After singing a hymn, they left for the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them, "All of you will turn away, for it is written, 'I WILL HIT THE SHEPHERD, AND THE SHEEP WILL BE SCATTERED.'
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter said to him, "Even if everyone departs, I will not, however.
And Jesus said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.
But Pedro insistently repeated: Even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same thing too.
And they * came to a place called Gethsemane, and he said * to his disciples: Sit here until I have prayed.
And he took Peter, James, and John with him, and he began to grieve and be greatly distressed.
And he said to them *: My soul is very afflicted, to the point of death; stay here and watch.
Going a little ahead, he fell to the ground and prayed that, if possible, that hour would pass from Him.
And he said: Abba, Father! For you all things are possible; take this cup away from me, but not what I want, but what you want.
Then he * came * and found them * sleeping, and said * to Peter: Simon, are you sleeping? Couldn't you watch even for an hour?
Watch and pray that you do not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the meat is weak.
He left again and prayed, saying the same words.
And he came again and found them sleeping, because his eyes were very heavy with sleep; and they did not know what to answer him.
* Came a third time, and said to them *: Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough already; The time has come; behold, the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up, let's go; Look, the one who gives me is near.
At that moment, while He was still speaking, * Judas, one of the twelve, arrived, accompanied by a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; Turn him on and take him safely.
And having arrived, he immediately approached Him saying: Rabbi! And kissed him.
Then they laid hands on him and seized him.
But one of those who were there, drawing the sword, struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
And Jesus addressing them said to them, Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest me as against a thief?
Every day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not arrest me; but this has happened so that the Scriptures are fulfilled.
And leaving him, they all fled.
A certain young man followed him, dressed only in a sheet over his naked body; and they caught him *;
but he, leaving the sheet, escaped naked.
And they brought Jesus to the high priest; and all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes assembled *.
Peter followed him from afar into the courtyard of the high priest; he was sitting with the bailiffs, warming himself over the fire.
And the chief priests and the whole council tried to obtain testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they could not find him.
Because many gave false testimony against Him, but their testimonies did not coincide.
And some, rising up, gave false testimony against Him, saying:
We heard him say, "I will destroy this temple made by hands, and in three days I will build another one not made by hands."
And even in this their testimony did not coincide.
Then the high priest arose, stood in the middle, and asked Jesus, saying, "You answer nothing? What do these testify against you?
But He was silent and answered nothing. The high priest asked him again, saying: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Jesus said: I am; and you will see the SON OF MAN SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND OF POWER AND COMING WITH THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN.
Then the high priest, tearing his clothes, said *: What need do we have for more witnesses?
You have heard the blasphemy; what do you think? And they all condemned him, saying that he was a prisoner of death.
And some began to spit on him, to cover his face and to punch him, and to say to him: Prophesy! And the bailiffs received him in the face.
As Peter was down in the courtyard, * one of the servants of the high priest came,
When she saw Peter warming up, she looked at him and said *: You were also with Jesus the Nazarene.
But he went on, saying: I neither know nor understand what you are talking about. And he went out to the portal, and a rooster crowed.
When the servant girl saw him, she again began to say to those who were there: This is one of them.
But he denied it again. And soon after those who were there said to Peter again: Surely you are one of them, because you are also a Galilean.
But he began to curse and swear: I do not know this man of whom you speak!
Instantly a rooster crowed a second time. Then Peter remembered what Jesus had told him: Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And she began to cry.
Very early in the morning, the chief priests immediately arranged a meeting with the elders, the scribes, and the entire council; And binding Jesus, they brought him and delivered him to Pilate.
Pilate asked him: Are you the King of the Jews? He answered and said to him *: You say so.
And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Again Pilate asked him, saying: Do you not answer anything? Look how many things they accuse you of.
But Jesus did not answer anything else; so Pilate was amazed.
Now, at each party he used to release a prisoner, the one they asked for.
And one named Barabbas had been imprisoned with the seditious who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the crowd came up, began to ask him to do as he had always done.
Then Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?
Because he knew that the chief priests had delivered him out of envy.
But the chief priests incited the crowd to ask him to release Barabbas instead of Jesus.
And Pilate, taking the word again, said to them: What then shall I do with the one you call the King of the Jews?
They cried out to him: Crucify him!
And Pilate said to them: Why? What wrong has he done? And they shouted even more: Crucify him!
Pilate, wanting to please the crowd, released Barabbas to them; and after whipping Jesus, he handed him over to be crucified.
Then the soldiers took him inside the palace, that is, to the Praetorium, and summoned * the entire Roman cohort.
They dressed him * in purple, and after weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on;
and they began to cheer for him: Hail, King of the Jews!
They beat him on the head with a reed and spat on him, and kneeling down they bowed to him.
And after mocking Him, they took off the purple, put His clothes on Him and took Him out * to crucify Him.
And they forced * one who was passing by and coming from the field, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear the cross of Jesus.
They took him * to the place called Golgotha, which translated means: Place of the Skull.
And they tried to give him wine mixed with myrrh, but He did not drink it.
When they crucified him *, they divided * their clothes, casting lots for them to decide what each one would take.
It was the third hour when they crucified him.
And the inscription of the accusation against Him read: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
* They crucified * with him two thieves; one on his right and one on his left.
And the Scripture was fulfilled that says: And with the transgressors it was numbered.
And those who passed by insulted him, shaking their heads and saying: Bah! You who destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
Save yourself by descending from the cross!
In the same way, also the main priests along with the scribes, mocking Him among them, said: He saved others, he cannot save himself.
May this Christ, the King of Israel, now descend from the cross, so that we may see and believe. And those who were crucified with Him also insulted Him.
When the sixth hour came, there was darkness over the whole earth until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus exclaimed in a loud voice: ELOI, ELOI, ¿LEMA SABACTANI ?, which translated means, MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU GIVEN ME?
Some of those who were there, when they heard it, said: Look, he calls Elijah.
Then one ran and soaked a sponge in vinegar, and putting it on a reed, he gave him a drink, saying: Leave, let's see if Elijah comes to take him down.
And Jesus, giving a loud cry, expired.
And the veil of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
Seeing the centurion who was in front of him, the way he expired, he said: Truly this man was the Son of God.
There were also some women watching from afar, among whom were María Magdalena, María, the mother of Jacobo the lesser and José, and Salomé,
which when Jesus was in Galilee, followed him and served him; and there were many others who had gone up with Him to Jerusalem.
Already at dusk, as it was the day of preparation, that is, the eve of the Sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea came, a prominent member of the council, who also awaited the kingdom of God; and filling himself with courage, he went to where Pilate was and asked for the body of Jesus.
Pilate was surprised that he had already died, and calling the centurion, asked him if he was already dead.
And verifying this through the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph,
who bought a linen cloth, and taking him down from the cross, wrapped him in the linen cloth and put him in a grave that had been excavated in the rock; and he rolled a stone at the entrance to the tomb.
And María Magdalena and María, José's mother, looked to know where they put him.
After the Sabbath day, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome, bought aromatic spices to go anoint him.
And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they * arrived at the tomb when the sun had risen.
And they said to each other: Who will remove the stone from the entrance to the tomb?
When they looked up, they saw * that the stone, although extremely large, had been removed.
And entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in white clothing; and they were scared.
But he * said to them, "Do not be afraid; you are looking for Nazarene Jesus, the crucified. He has risen, he is not here; look at the place where they put him.
But go, tell his disciples and Peter: "He goes ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him, just as he told you."
And when they came out, they fled from the grave, because a great trembling and terror had seized them; and they said nothing to anyone because they were afraid.
And after being resurrected, very early on the first day of the week, Jesus first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
And she went and communicated it to those who had been with Him, who were lamenting and crying.
When they heard that He was alive and that she had seen Him, they refused to believe it.
After this, two of them appeared differently when they were on their way to the field.
And these went and communicated it to the others, but they did not believe them either.
Then he appeared to the eleven themselves when they were sitting at the table, and rebuked them for their disbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who had seen him resurrected.
And he said to them: Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.
And these signs will accompany those who have believed: in my name they will cast out demons, they will speak in new languages;
they will take snakes in their hands, and even if they drink something deadly, it will not harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
Then the Lord Jesus, after speaking with them, was received into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by means of the signs that followed it. They immediately communicated to Pedro and his companions all these instructions. And after this, Jesus himself sent through them, from east to west, the sacrosanct and incorruptible message of eternal salvation.
Principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Son of God.
As it is written in the prophet Isaiah: BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY.
VOICE OF THE ONE CRYING IN THE DESERT: "PREPARE THE WAY OF THE LORD, MAKE HIS PATHS RIGHT."
John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness preaching the baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
And the whole region of Judea came to him, and all the people of Jerusalem, and confessing their sins, were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
Juan was dressed in camel's hair, had a leather belt around his waist, and ate locusts and wild honey.
And he preached, saying: After me comes one who is more powerful than I, whom I am not worthy to untie, bowing down, the strap of his sandals.
I baptized you with water, but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John at the Jordan.
And immediately, when he came out of the water, he saw that the heavens were opening, and that the Spirit like a dove descended on Him;
And a voice came from heaven, saying: You are my beloved Son, in you I have been pleased.
The Spirit immediately prompted him * to go into the desert.
And he was in the desert forty days, being tempted by Satan; and he was among the wild beasts, and the angels served him.
After John had been imprisoned, Jesus came to Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God,
and saying: The time has come and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe the gospel.
While walking along the Sea of ​​Galilee, she saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net in the sea, because they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And instantly leaving the nets, they followed him.
Going a little further, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and his brother John, who were also in the boat, mending the nets.
And instantly he called them; and they, leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the day laborers, went after him.
* They entered Capernaum; and immediately, on the Sabbath, when Jesus entered the synagogue, he began to teach.
And they admired his teaching; because he taught them as one who has authority, and not as scribes.
And behold, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, who began to cry out,
saying: What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
Jesus rebuked him, saying: Shut up and get out of him!
Then the unclean spirit, convulsing him, cried out with a loud voice and came out of him.
And they were all so amazed that they argued among themselves, saying: What is this? A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits and they obey him.
And immediately his fame spread everywhere, throughout the region around Galilee.
Immediately after leaving the synagogue, they went to the house of Simón and Andrés, with Jacobo and Juan.
And Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever; and they immediately spoke to her about her.
Jesus approached her, and taking her by the hand he lifted her up, and the fever left her; and she served them.
In the late afternoon, after sunset, they brought him all who were sick and possessed.
And the whole city had piled up at the gate.
And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and he did not let the demons speak, because they knew who he was.
Rising very early in the morning, when it was still dark, he went out and went to a lonely place, and there he prayed.
And Simon and his companions went out to look for him;
They found him and said to him *: Everyone is looking for you.
And He said to them *: We are going to another place, to the neighboring towns, so that I can preach there also, because that is why I have come.
And he went all over Galilee, preaching in his synagogues and casting out demons.
And * a leper came to him, pleading with him, and kneeling down said to him: If you want, you can cleanse me.
Moved to compassion, Jesus reached out his hand, touched him, and said to him: "I want to; Be clean.
And instantly the leprosy left him and he was clean.
Then Jesus admonished him severely and immediately dismissed him,
And he said to him: "Look, do not say anything to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.
But he, as soon as he left, began to openly proclaim it and spread the fact, to the point that Jesus could no longer enter any city publicly, but stayed outside in unpopulated places; and they came to Him from everywhere.
Having entered Capernaum again several days later, it was heard that he was at home.
And many gathered, so much so that there was no longer even a door; and He spoke the word to them.
Then they * came * to bring him a paralyzed man carried between four.
And because they couldn't get close to Him because of the crowd, they raised the roof above where He was; and when they had made an opening, they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic lay.
Jesus, seeing their faith, said * to the paralytic: Son, your sins are forgiven.
But some of the scribes were sitting there, who thought in their hearts:
Why does he speak like this? He is blaspheming; Who can forgive sins, but only God?
And instantly Jesus, knowing in his spirit that they thought that way within themselves, said to them *: Why do you think these things in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up, take your mat and walk"?
So that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he * said to the paralytic):
To you I say: Get up, take your mat and go home.
And he got up, and instantly taking the stretcher, came out in full view of everyone, so that everyone was amazed and glorified God, saying: We have never seen anything like this.
And He went out again to the seashore, and all the crowd came to Him, and taught them.
And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting in the tribute office, and said to him, * Follow me. And getting up, he followed him.
And it came to pass that while Jesus was sitting at the table in Levi's house, many tax collectors and sinners were eating with Jesus and his disciples; because there were many of them following him.
When the scribes of the Pharisees saw that He ate with sinners and tax collectors, they said to his disciples: Why does He eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
Hearing this, Jesus said to them *: Those who are healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick; I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; And they * came and said to him, "Why do John's disciples and Pharisees' disciples fast, but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can the bridegroom's companions fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the groom with them, they cannot fast.
But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast on that day.
No one puts a patch of new fabric on an old dress, because then the shrinking patch pulls it, the new from the old, and a worse break occurs.
And no one puts new wine in old wineskins, because then the wine will break the wineskin, and the wine and the wineskins are also lost; but new wine is poured into new wineskins.
And it came to pass that one Sabbath day Jesus was passing through the fields, and his disciples began to pluck ears as they made their way.
Then the Pharisees said to him: Look, why do you do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?
And He said to them *: Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and his companions,
How did he enter the house of God in the time of Abiathar, the high priest, and ate the consecrated loaves, which is not lawful for anyone to eat, but for the priests, and gave also to those who were with him?
And He said to them: The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath.
Again Jesus entered a synagogue; and there was a man there who had a dry hand.
And they watched him to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they could accuse him.
And he * said to the man who had a dry hand: Get up and stand here in the middle.
Then he said to them, * Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save a life, or to kill? But they were silent.
And looking around them with anger, saddened by the hardness of their hearts, he said * to the man: Extend your hand. And he held it out, and his hand was healed.
But when the Pharisees came out, they immediately began plotting with the Herodians against Jesus, to see how they could destroy him.
Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee followed him; and also from Judea,
from Jerusalem, from Idumea, across the Jordan, and from the environs of Tire and Sidon; a great multitude, who, hearing all that Jesus was doing, came to Him.
And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, so that they would not oppress him;
for he had healed many, so that all who had afflictions would come upon him to touch him.
And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell before him and cried out, saying: You are the Son of God.
And he insistently warned them not to reveal their identity.
And he * went up into the mountain, called * those whom He wanted, and they came to Him.
And he appointed twelve, to be with him and to send them out to preach,
and so they had authority to cast out demons.
He appointed the twelve: Simon (whom he named Peter),
James, son of Zebedee, and John brother of James (whom he named Boanerges, which means, children of thunder);
Andrés, Felipe, Bartolomé, Mateo, Tomás, Jacobo, son of Alfeo, Tadeo, Simón el cananita;
and Judas Iscariot, the one who also handed him over.
Jesus * came to a house, and the crowd gathered * again, to the point that they could not even eat.
When his relatives heard this, they went to take charge of Him, because they said: He is beside himself.
And the scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said: He has Beelzebub; y: Cast out demons by the prince of demons.
And calling them to himself, he spoke to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot last.
And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot remain.
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot remain, but his end has come.
But no one can enter a strong man's house and loot his possessions if he does not tie him up first; then you can ransack your house.
Truly I tell you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and the blasphemies with which they blaspheme,
but anyone who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of eternal sin.
Because they said: He has an unclean spirit.
Then * his mother and his brothers arrived, and staying outside, they sent for him.
And there was a crowd sitting around Him, and they said to him, "Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside and looking for you.
And He answered them *, Who are my mother and my brothers?
And looking around those who were sitting in a circle around him, he said *: Behold my mother and my brothers.
Because anyone who does the will of God, that is my brother and sister and mother.
He began to teach again by the sea; and a crowd came to him so large that he had to get into a boat that was in the sea, and he sat down; and the whole crowd was ashore at the seashore.
He taught them many things in parables; and he said to them in his teaching:
Hey! Behold, the sower went out to sow;
and it came to pass that when sowing a part of the seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and ate it.
Another part fell on a scree where it did not have much land; and immediately it sprouted for not having depth of earth.
But when the sun came up, it burned; and having no root, it dried up.
Another part fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew and drowned it, and it bore no fruit.
And other seeds fell into good soil, and growing and developing they bore fruit, and produced some thirty, others sixty, and others one hundredfold.
And He said: He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
When he was left alone, his followers along with the twelve asked him about the parables.
And he said to them: The mystery of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but those who are outside receive everything in parables;
so that seeing they see but they do not perceive, and hearing they hear but they do not understand, lest they convert and be forgiven.
And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
The sower sows the word.
And these who are along the path where the word is sown, are those who as soon as they hear it, Satan instantly comes and takes the word that has been sown in them.
And in the same way, those in whom the seed was sown on stony ground are those who upon hearing the word immediately receive it with joy;
but they do not have deep roots in themselves, they are only temporary. So when affliction or persecution comes because of the word, they immediately stumble and fall.
Others are those in which the seed was sown among the thorns; these are the ones who have heard the word,
but the worries of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires of other things come in and choke the word, and it becomes sterile.
And others are those in whom the seed was sown in good soil; who hear the word, accept it and bear fruit, some to thirty, others to sixty and others one hundred to one.
And he said to them: Does he bring a lamp to put it under a bushel or under the bed? Isn't it to put it in the limelight?
Because there is nothing hidden, if it is not so that it is manifested; nor has anything been secret, but for it to come to light.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
He also said to them: Be careful of what you hear. As you measure, it will be measured to you, and more will be given to you.
For from the one who has, more will be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away.
He also said: The kingdom of God is like a man who puts seed in the ground,
and he lies down and rises, night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; how, he doesn't know.
The earth produces fruit by itself; first the leaf, then the ear, and then the ripe grain on the ear.
And when the fruit allows it, he immediately puts in the sickle, because the harvest time has come.
He also said: To what shall we compare the kingdom of God, or with what parable will we describe it?
It is like a mustard seed, which, when planted in the ground, although it is smaller than all the seeds in the ground,
however, when it is planted, it grows and becomes larger than all vegetables and sprouts large branches, so much so that the birds of the sky can nest under its shade.
With many parables like these he spoke the word to them, as they could hear it;
and without parables he did not speak to them, but explained everything privately to his own disciples.
That day, late in the afternoon, he said to them *: Let's go to the other side.
Dismissing the crowd, they took him * with them in the boat, as was; and there were other boats with Him.
But a violent storm arose *, and the waves were rushing on the boat in such a way that the boat was already flooded.
He was at the stern, sleeping on a headrest; Then they woke him up * and said to him: "Master, don't you care that we perish?
And rising up, he rebuked the wind, and said to the sea: Calm down, calm down! And the wind stopped, and a great calm ensued.
Then he said to them: Why are you afraid? How can you not have faith?
And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?
And they reached the other side of the sea, to the land of the Gadarenes.
And when He got out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit came to meet Him from the tombs,
that he had his dwelling among the graves; and no one could tie him even with chains anymore;
Because many times he had been bound with shackles and chains, but he had broken the chains and smashed the shackles, and no one was strong enough to dominate him.
And always, night and day, he walked among the tombs and in the mountains screaming and hurting himself with stones.
When he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before Him;
And shouting with a loud voice, he said *: What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore you by God that you don't torment me.
Because Jesus said to him: Get out of the man, you unclean spirit.
And he asked him: What is your name? And he said to him *: My name is Legion, because we are many.
Then he begged him insistently not to send them off the ground.
And there was a great herd of pigs grazing by the mountain.
And the demons begged him, saying: Send us the pigs so that we can enter them.
And He gave them permission. And when the unclean spirits came out, they entered the pigs; and the herd, about two thousand, rushed down a cliff into the sea, and drowned in the sea.
And those who looked after the pigs fled and told about it in the city and in the fields. And people came to see what had happened.
And they * came * to Jesus, and saw * the one who had been possessed with a devil, seated, clothed and in his right mind, the same man who had had the legion; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it described to them how this had happened to the demoniac, and that of the pigs.
And they began to beg him to leave their region.
As He entered the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him to let him accompany him.
But Jesus did not allow it, but said to him: "Go home, to yours, and tell them how great the Lord has done for you, and how he had mercy on you.
And he left, and began to proclaim in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him; and everyone was amazed.
When Jesus again passed in the boat on the other side, a large crowd gathered around Him; so He stayed by the sea.
And one of the synagogue officers, named Jairus, came, and when he saw him, he fell down * at his feet.
And he begged * him insistently, saying: My little daughter is on the verge of death; I beg you to come and put your hands on it to heal and live.
Jesus went with him; and a great crowd followed and oppressed him.
And a woman who had had blood flow for twelve years,
and he had suffered a lot at the hands of many doctors, and he had spent everything he had without profit, but on the contrary, had worsened;
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him from the crowd and touched his cloak.
Because he said: If I just touch his clothes, I will heal.
Instantly the source of her blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her grief.
And immediately Jesus, realizing that power had come from Him, turning among the people, said: Who has touched my clothes?
And his disciples said to him: You see that the crowd oppresses you, and you say: "Who touched me?"
But He looked around to see the woman who had touched him.
Then the woman, fearful and trembling, realizing what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told him the whole truth.
And Jesus said to her: Daughter, your faith has healed you; go in peace and be healed of your affliction.
While I was still speaking, they * came * from the synagogue officer's house, saying: Your daughter is dead, why are you still bothering the Master?
But Jesus, hearing what was being said, * said to the synagogue officer: Fear not, believe only.
And he did not allow anyone to go with him but only Peter, James and John, the brother of James.
They * went to the house of the synagogue officer, and Jesus saw * the commotion, and those who were crying and wailing.
And going in he said to them *: Why are you making a fuss and crying? The girl is not dead, but is asleep.
And they mocked Him. But He, casting out all, took * with him the father and mother of the child, and those who were with Him, and * entered where the child was.
And taking the girl by the hand, he said *: Talita cum (which translated means: Girl, I tell you, get up!).
Instantly the girl got up and began to finish, because she was twelve years old. And instantly they were completely stunned.
He then gave them strict orders that no one should find out about this; and said to feed the girl.
He left there and * came to his town; and his disciples followed him *.
When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue; and many who listened to him were astonished, saying: Where did he obtain such things, and what is this wisdom that has been given him, and these miracles that he performs with his hands?
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? Are not your sisters here with us? And they were scandalized because of Him.
And Jesus said to them, There is no prophet without honor except in his own land, and among his relatives, and in his house.
And he couldn't do a miracle there; he only healed a few sick people on whom he laid his hands.
And he was marvelled with their incredullity. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
Then he called * the twelve and began to send them two by two, giving them authority over the unclean spirits;
and ordered them not to carry anything for the road, but only a staff; no bread, no saddlebag, no money in the belt;
but wearing sandals. Don't wear two robes
He said to them, "and wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave the town."
And wherever they do not receive or listen to you, as you leave, shake the dust off the soles of your feet as a testimony against them.
And going out, they preached that everyone would repent.
And they cast out many demons, and anointed many sick with oil and healed them.
King Herod found out about this, because the name of Jesus had become famous, and people said: John the Baptist has risen from the dead, that is why these miraculous powers work in him.
But others said: It is Elijah. And others said: He is a prophet, like one of the ancient prophets.
And when Herod heard this, he said: John, whom I beheaded, has risen.
Because Herod himself had sent John to be arrested and chained in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because Herod had married her.
Because John said to Herod: It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.
And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to kill him, but he couldn't,
because Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just and holy man, and kept him protected. And when he heard him he was very puzzled, but he liked to listen to him.
But an opportune day came, when Herod, being his birthday, offered a feast to his nobles and commanders and to the chiefs of Galilee;
and when Herodias's own daughter entered and danced, she pleased Herod and those who sat at the table with him; And the king said to the girl: Ask me what you want and I will give it to you.
And he swore to her: I will give you what you ask of me, up to half of my kingdom.
She came out and said to her mother: What shall I ask for? And she replied: The head of John the Baptist.
Immediately she hurriedly presented herself to the king with her request, saying: I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptist on a tray.
And although the king was very sad, nevertheless because of his oaths and those who sat with him at the table, he did not want to snub her.
And instantly the king sent an executioner and ordered him to bring John's head. And he went and beheaded him in prison,
and he brought his head on a tray, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
When his disciples heard this, they went and took the body and buried him.
The apostles * met with Jesus, and informed him of all that they had done and taught.
And He said to them *: Come, separate yourselves from the others to a solitary place and rest a little. (Because there were many who came and went, and they did not even have time to eat.)
And they went by boat to a secluded, lonely place.
But the people saw them leave, and many recognized them and together they ran there on foot from all the cities, and arrived before them.
Upon landing, He saw a great crowd, and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd; and began to teach them many things.
And when it was very late, his disciples approached him, saying: The place is deserted and it is already very late;
fire them to go to the surrounding fields and villages and buy themselves something to eat.
But He answered and said to them, Give them something to eat. And they said to him *: Do you want us to go and buy two hundred denarii of bread and feed them?
And He said to them *: How many loaves do you have? Go and see And when they were sure they said to him *: Five, and two fish.
And he ordered them all to lie down in groups on the green grass.
And they lay down in groups of one hundred and fifty.
Then He took the five loaves and the two fishes, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he blessed them, and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to serve them; He also divided the two fish among all.
They all ate and were satisfied.
And they collected twelve baskets full of the pieces, and also of the fish.
Those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
He immediately made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd.
And after saying goodbye to them, he went to the mountains to pray.
At dusk, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and He was alone on land.
And when he saw them row tiredly, because the wind was against them, like on the fourth watch of the night, he went towards them walking on the sea, and he wanted to pass them by.
But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought he was a ghost and they began to scream;
because they all saw him and were troubled. But immediately He spoke to them and said *: Be of good cheer; it's me, don't fear!
And he got into the boat with them, and the wind died down; and they were greatly amazed,
because they had not understood about the loaves, but their mind was dull.
After the crossing, they reached land at Genesaret, and docked.
When they got out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Jesus,
and they hurried through all that region, and began to bring the sick in their stretchers where they heard that He was.
And wherever He entered villages, cities, or fields, they put the sick in the squares, and begged Him to allow them to touch even the hem of their cloak; and all who touched it were healed.
The Pharisees, and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, gathered around Him;
and they saw that some of his disciples ate the bread with unclean hands, that is, without washing.
(Because the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands carefully, thus observing the tradition of the elders;
and when they return from the plaza, they do not eat unless they wash; and there are many other things that they have received to observe, such as the washing of the glasses, the jugs and the copper vessels.)
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him *: Why do not your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with unclean hands?
And He said to them: Isaiah prophesied well of you, hypocrites, as it is written: "THIS PEOPLE WITH THE LIPS HONOR ME, BUT THEIR HEART IS VERY FAR FROM ME.
MORE IN VAIN THEY WORSHIP ME, TEACHING LIKE DOCTRINE PRECEPTS OF MEN. "
Leaving the commandment of God, you cling to the tradition of men.
He also said to them: You cunningly violate God's command to keep your tradition.
Because Moses said: "HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER"; and: "HE WHO SPEAKS EVIL OF HIS FATHER OR MOTHER, DIE";
but you say: "If a man says to the father or the mother:" Anything of mine with which you could benefit is corban (that is, offering to God) "";
you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or mother;
thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you have transmitted, and you do many things similar to these.
And calling the crowd again, he said: Listen to me all and understand:
there is nothing outside of man that when entering him can contaminate him; but what comes out from within man is what contaminates man.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable.
And He said to them *: Are you also so lacking in understanding? Do you not understand that everything that enters outside man cannot contaminate him,
because it does not enter your heart, but the stomach, and is eliminated? (Thus declaring all food clean.)
And he said: What comes out of man, that is what contaminates man.
Because from inside, from the hearts of men, come evil thoughts, fornication, robbery, homicide, adultery,
greed, evil, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride and folly.
All these evils from within come out, and contaminate man.
Rising from there, he went to the region of Tire, and entering a house, he did not want anyone to know it, but he could not go unnoticed;
but immediately, on hearing of Him, a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, went and fell at His feet.
The woman was a Gentile, Syrophoenician by birth; and begged him to cast the demon out of his daughter.
And He said to him: Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
But she answered and said to him *: It is true, Lord; but even the little dogs under the table eat the crumbs of the children.
And He said to him: For this answer, go; the demon has left your daughter.
When she returned home, she found that the girl was lying on the bed, and that the demon had come out.
Leaving the region of Tire again, he passed through Sidon and arrived at the Sea of ​​Galilee, crossing the Decapolis region.
And they brought * him who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and begged him * to lay his hand on him.
Then Jesus, taking him apart from the crowd, alone, put his fingers in his ears, and spitting, touched his tongue with saliva;
and raising his eyes to heaven, he sighed deeply and said *: Effatá !, that is: Open up!
And instantly his ears opened, and the impediment of his tongue disappeared, and he spoke clearly.
And Jesus ordered them to tell no one; but the more he ordered it, the more they proclaimed it.
And they were amazed in a great way, saying: He has done everything well; He even makes the deaf hear and the dumb speak.
In those days, when there was again a large crowd that had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples and said to them *:
I have compassion for the crowd because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat;
and if I fire them without eating at their homes, they will faint along the way, because some of them have come from far away.
His disciples answered him: Where can anyone find enough to satisfy these here in the desert with bread?
And He asked them: How many loaves do you have? And they answered: Seven.
Then he * commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground; and taking the seven loaves, after giving thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to put before the people; and they served them to the crowd.
They also had a few minnows; and after blessing them, he commanded that they also serve them.
They all ate and were satisfied; and they collected of what was left of the pieces, seven baskets.
Those who ate were about four thousand; and fired them.
And immediately getting into the boat with his disciples, he went to the Dalmanuta region.
Then the Pharisees came out and began to argue with Him, seeking from Him a sign from heaven to test Him.
Sighing deeply in his spirit, he said *: Why is this generation asking for a signal? Truly I tell you, no sign will be given to this generation.
And leaving them, he embarked again and went to the other side.
And they had forgotten to take breads; and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
And He charged them saying: Be careful! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
And they argued among themselves that they had no loaves.
Noticing Jesus, he said to them *: Why do you argue that you have no bread? Do you still not understand or understand? Do you have a hardened heart?
HAVING EYES, DON'T SEE? AND HAVING EARS, DON'T HEAR? Don't you remember
when I broke the five loaves among the five thousand? How many baskets full of pieces did you collect? And they said to him *: Twelve.
And when I broke the seven loaves among the four thousand, how many baskets full of the pieces did you collect? And they said to him *: Seven.
And he said to them: Do you still not understand?
They * came to Bethsaida, and brought him * a blind man and begged him * to touch him.
Taking the blind man by the hand, he led him out of the village; and after spitting in his eyes and putting his hands on him, he asked him: Do you see anything?
And looking up, he said: I see men, but I see them as walking trees.
Then Jesus put his hands over his eyes again, and he stared and was restored; and he saw everything clearly.
And he sent him home saying: Not even in the village do you enter.
Jesus and his disciples went out to the villages of Caesarea Philippi; and on the way he asked his disciples, saying to them: Who do men say that I am?
And they answered him, saying: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; but others, one of the prophets.
He asked them again: But you, who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said *: You are the Christ.
And He severely warned them not to speak of Him to anyone.
And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
And he said these words clearly to them. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
But turning and looking at his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said to him: "Get behind me, Satan! Because you do not have in mind the things of God, but the things of men.
And calling the crowd and his disciples, he said to them: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.
Well, what use is it to a man to win the whole world and lose his soul?
For what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.
And he said to them: Truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after he has come in power.
Six days later, Jesus took * Peter with him, Jacoboy with John, and took them * apart, alone, to a high mountain; and was transfigured before them;
and their garments became resplendent, very white, just as no laundress on earth can make them white.
And Elijah appeared to them along with Moses, and they were talking to Jesus.
Then Peter, intervening, said * to Jesus: Rabbi, it is good to be here; Let's make three branches, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
Because he didn't know what to say, because they were terrified.
Then a cloud formed, covering them, and a voice came out of the cloud: This is my beloved Son; Hear him.
And immediately they looked around, but they no longer saw anyone with them, but Jesus alone.
When they came down from the mountain, he ordered them not to tell anyone what they had seen, until the Son of Man rose from the dead.
And they kept to themselves what was said, discussing among themselves what it would mean to rise from the dead.
And they asked him, saying: Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And He said to them: It is true that Elijah, by coming first, will restore all things. And yet, how is it written of the Son of Man who suffers much and is despised?
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did what they wanted, just as it is written about him.
When they returned to the disciples, they saw a large crowd surrounding them, and some scribes arguing with them.
Immediately, when the whole crowd saw Jesus, they were surprised, and running towards Him, they greeted him.
And He asked them: What do you discuss with them?
And one of the crowd answered him: Master, I brought you my son who has a dumb spirit,
and whenever she gets hold of him, he knocks him down, and he froths, gnash his teeth and is consumed. And I told your disciples to drive him out, but they couldn't.
Jesus answered them * and said: O unbelieving generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I have to bear you? Bring it to me!
And they brought it to him. And when the spirit saw Jesus, it instantly shook the boy violently, and the boy, falling to the ground, was rolling around, foaming.
Jesus asked the father: How long has this been happening to him? And he replied: From his childhood.
And many times he has thrown it into the fire and also into the water to destroy it. But if you can do something, have mercy on us and help us.
Jesus said to him, "What if you can?" All things are possible to him who believes.
Instantly the boy's father screamed and said: I believe; help me in my disbelief.
When Jesus saw a crowd gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him: Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you: Get out of him and do not enter him again.
And after shouting and shaking him with terrible convulsions, he came out: and the boy was as dead, so much so that most of them said: He is dead!
But Jesus, taking him by the hand, raised him up, and he stood up.
When Jesus entered the house, his disciples asked him in private: Why we could not cast him out?
And He said to them: This class can go out with nothing, but with prayer.
Leaving there, they were passing through Galilee, and He did not want anyone to know it.
Because he taught his disciples, and said to them: The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him; and after he is dead, after three days he will rise again.
But they did not understand what he was saying, and they were afraid to ask him.
And they came to Capernaum; and being already in the house, I asked them: What were you discussing along the way?
But they were silent, because on the way they had discussed among themselves which of them was the oldest.
Sitting down, he called the twelve and said to them *: If anyone wishes to be the first, he will be the last of all and the servant of all.
And taking a child, he put him in their midst; and taking him in his arms he said to them:
Whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me; And whoever receives me does not receive me, but the one who sent me.
John said to him: Master, we saw one casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him, because he did not follow us.
But Jesus said: Do not stop him, because there is no one who works a miracle in my name, and who can immediately speak ill of me.
For he who is not against us is for us.
Because whoever gives you a glass of water to drink, because of your name, since you are followers of Christ, in truth I tell you that he will not lose his reward.
And anyone who stumbles one of these little ones who believe in me, it would be better if they had tied a millstone around his neck that moves an ass, and threw him into the sea.
And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off; It is better for you to enter life with one hand, than with both hands to go to hell, to the inextinguishable fire,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
And if your foot is an occasion for sin, cut it off; it is better for you to enter life lame, than having both feet to be thrown into hell,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
And if your eye causes you to sin, remove it; it is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell,
where THE WORM OF THEM DOES NOT DIE, AND THE FIRE DOES NOT GO OUT.
Because they will all be salted with fire.
Salt is good; but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what will you season it? Have salt in you and be at peace with one another.
Then calling his twelve disciples, Jesus gave them power over the unclean spirits to drive them out and to heal all sickness and disease.
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Felipe and Bartolomé; Tomás and Mateo, the tax collector; James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus;
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, the one who also handed him over.
These twelve Jesus sent after instructing them, saying: Do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans.
Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And when you go, preach saying, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons; of grace you received, give of grace.
Do not provide yourselves with gold, or silver, or copper to carry in your belts,
neither a saddlebag for the road, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor a staff; because the worker is worthy of his support.
And in any city or village where you enter, find out who is worthy in it, and stay there until you leave.
As you enter the house, give him your greeting of peace.
And if the house is worthy, may your greeting of peace come upon it; but if it is not worthy, may your greeting of peace return to you.
And whoever does not receive you or hear your words, when you leave that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet.
Truly, I say to you, on the day of judgment, punishment will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that city.
Look, I am sending you like sheep among wolves; therefore be cunning like snakes and innocent like pigeons.
But beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and flog you in their synagogues;
and you will even be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they give you up, don't worry about how or what you will talk about; because at that hour you will be given what you will speak.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking in you.
And the brother will deliver the brother to death, and the father the son; and the children will rise up against the parents, and will kill them.
And you will be hated by all because of my name, but whoever endures to the end will be saved.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee to the other; for truly I say to you, you will not finish touring the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
A disciple is not above the master, nor is a servant above his master.
It is enough for the disciple to become like his teacher, and the servant like his master. If the owner of the house has been called Beelzebú, how much more to those of his house!
So do not fear them, because there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, or hidden that is not to be known.
What I tell you in the dark, speak it in the light; And what you hear in your ear, proclaim it from the rooftops.
And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul; rather fear him who can perish both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a quarter? And yet, not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father allowing it.
And even the hairs on your head are all numbered.
So do not fear; you are worth more than many sparrows.
Therefore everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I came to bring peace to the earth; I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Because I came to PUT MAN AGAINST HIS FATHER, DAUGHTER AGAINST HIS MOTHER, AND DAUGHTER AGAINST HIS MOTHER-IN-LAW;
and THE ENEMIES OF MAN will BE THOSE OF THE SAME HOUSE.
He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
And he who does not take up his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me.
He who has found his life will lose it; and he who has lost his life for my sake will find it.
He who receives you receives me; and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet as a prophet will receive a prophet's reward; and he who receives a righteous man as righteous shall receive a righteous man's reward.
And anyone who as a disciple gives even one of these little ones a drink of cold water, in truth I tell you that he will not lose his reward.
And it happened that when Jesus finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he went from there to teach and preach in their cities.
And when John heard in prison of the works of Christ, he commanded through his disciples
to say to him: Are you the one to come, or will we wait for someone else?
And Jesus answering said to them, Go and tell John what you hear and see:
the BLIND receive SIGHT and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the GOSPEL IS ANNOUNCED TO THE POOR.
And blessed is he who is not scandalized by me.
As they were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: What did you go out to see in the desert? A reed shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Look, those who wear thin robes are in the palaces of the kings.
But what did you go out to see? To a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and one who is more than a prophet.
This is the one about whom it is written: "BEHOLD, I SEND MY MESSENGER IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE, WHO WILL PREPARE YOUR WAY BEFORE YOU."
Truly I tell you that among those born of women no one greater than John the Baptist has risen; however, the smallest in the kingdom of heaven is greater than him.
And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent conquer it by force.
Because all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if you want to accept it, he is Elías, the one who was to come.
He who has ears, let him hear.
But what will I compare this generation to? It is similar to the boys who sit in the squares, who call out to others,
and they say: "We played the flute for you, and you didn't dance; we sang lays, and you didn't regret it."
Because Juan came who did not eat or drink, and they say: "He has a devil."
The Son of Man came, who eats and drinks, and they say: "Look, a gluttonous man and a wine drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners." But wisdom is justified by its deeds.
Then he began to scold the cities where he had done most of his miracles, because they had not repented.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Betsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tire and Sidon, they would have long ago repented in sackcloth and ashes.
That is why I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment will be more tolerable for Tire and Sidon than for you.
And you, Capernaum, will you be raised to heaven? You will descend to Hades! Because if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until today.
However, I tell you that on the day of judgment the punishment for the land of Sodom will be more tolerable than for you.
At that time, Jesus speaking, said: I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you hid these things from wise and intelligent, and revealed them to children.
Yes, Father, because it was to your liking.
All things have been delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wants to reveal.
Come to me, all of you who are tired and burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart, and YOU WILL FIND REST FOR YOUR SOULS.
Because my yoke is easy and my load is light.
At that time Jesus passed through the fields on the Sabbath; His disciples were hungry, and began to pluck ears and eat.
And when the Pharisees saw him, they said to him, See, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.
But He said to them: Have you not read what David did when he and his companions were hungry,
How did he enter the house of God and eat the consecrated loaves, which were not lawful for him to eat, nor those who were with him, but only the priests?
Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and are without guilt?
Well I tell you that something greater than the temple is here.
But if you had known what this means: "MERCY I WANT AND I DO NOT SACRIFICE", you would not have condemned the innocent.
For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.
Passing from there, he entered their synagogue.
And behold, there was a man there who had a dry hand. And in order to accuse him, they asked him, saying: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?
And He said to them, "What man is there among you who has only one sheep? If it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, does he not lay hold of it and take it out?
Well, how much more is a man worth than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.
Then he said to the man: "Stretch out your hand. And he extended it, and it was restored to him, healthy as the other.
But when the Pharisees came out, they conspired against Him, to see how they could destroy Him.
But Jesus, knowing it, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he healed them all.
And he warned them not to reveal who He was;
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, when he said:
LOOK, MY SERVANT, WHO HAVE I CHOSEN; MY BELOVED ON WHOM MY SOUL IS PLEASED; OVER IT I WILL PUT MY SPIRIT, AND TO THE NATIONS I WILL PROCLAIM JUSTICE.
IT WILL NOT CONTEND, NOR SHOUT, NOR WILL ANYONE ON THE STREETS HEAR YOUR VOICE.
IT WILL NOT BROKEN THE WATERFALLED CANE, NOR DOES IT STOP THE WICK THAT SMOKE, UNTIL I BRING JUSTICE TO VICTORY.
AND IN HIS NAME THE NATIONS WILL PUT HIS HOPE.
Then they brought him a blind and mute demoniac, and he healed him, so that the mute spoke and saw.
And all the multitudes were amazed, and said: Is not this the Son of David?
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said: This man does not cast out demons but by Beelzebub, the prince of demons.
And Jesus, knowing his thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is devastated, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand up.
And if Satan expels Satan, he is divided against himself; How then can his kingdom stand?
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come to you.
Or how can someone break into a strong man's house and loot his possessions if he doesn't tie him up first? And then he will plunder his house.
Who is not with me, is against me; and he who does not gather with me scatters.
That is why I tell you: all sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
And anyone who says a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come.
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad; because by the fruit the tree is known.
Litter of vipers! How can you speak good things while being bad? Because of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man of great treasure brings good things; and the bad man from his bad treasure brings out bad things.
And I tell you that every vain word that men speak, they will give account of it on the day of judgment.
Because by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying: Master, we want to see a sign from you.
But He answered and said to them: A wicked and adulterous generation demands a sign, and no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet;
for as JONAS WAS IN THE BELLY OF THE SEA MONSTER THREE DAYS AND THREE NIGHTS, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Nineveh's men will rise up with this generation in judgment and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and look, something bigger than Jonah is here.
The Queen of the South will rise with this generation in judgment and will condemn her, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and look, something bigger than Solomon is here.
When the unclean spirit leaves man, it goes through arid places looking for rest and does not find it.
Then he says: "I will return to my house where I came from"; and when it arrives, it finds it unoccupied, swept and groomed.
He goes then, and takes with him seven other spirits more depraved than he, and entering, they dwell there; and the final state of that man is worse than the first. So it will be with this evil generation as well.
While He was still speaking to the crowd, behold, His mother and brothers were outside, desiring to speak to Him.
And someone said to him: Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside wishing to speak with you.
But He answering the one who told him, said: Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?
And extending his hand towards his disciples, he said: Behold my mother and my brothers!
Because whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, that is my brother and my sister and my mother.
That same day Jesus left the house and sat on the seashore.
And large crowds gathered near Him, so He got into a boat and sat down; and the entire crowd was standing on the beach.
And he spoke many things to them in parables, saying: Behold, the sower went out to sow;
and when sowing, part of the seed fell along the road, and the birds came and ate it.
Another part fell on rocky ground where it did not have much land; and immediately it sprouted because it had no depth of earth;
but when the sun rose, it burned; and because it had no root, it dried up.
Another part fell among thorns; and the thorns grew and drowned it.
And another part fell on good soil and bore fruit, some seeds at one hundred for one, others at sixty and others at thirty.
He who has ears, let him hear.
And the disciples came to him and said, Why do you speak to them in parables?
And He answering said to them, For it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but it has not been given to them.
For whosoever hath, to him shall be given more, and he shall have abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken away.
That is why I speak to you in parables; because seeing they do not see, and hearing they neither hear nor understand.
And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says: "WHEN YOU HEAR, YOU WILL HEAR, AND YOU WILL NOT UNDERSTAND; AND SEEING, YOU WILL SEE, AND YOU WILL NOT PERCEIVE;
FOR THE HEART OF THIS PEOPLE HAS BECOME INSENSITIVE AND WITH DIFFICULTY HEAR WITH THEIR EARS; AND THEIR EYES HAVE BEEN CLOSED, SO THAT THEY SEE WITH THE EYES, AND HEAR WITH THE EARS, AND UNDERSTAND WITH THE HEART, AND BE CONVERTED, AND I HEAL THEM ".
But blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears, because they hear.
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous wanted to see what you see, and did not see it; and hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
So listen to the parable of the sower.
To everyone who hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the one in whom the seed was sown along the road.
And the one in whom the seed was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy;
but it has no deep root in itself, but is only temporary, and when affliction or persecution comes from the word, it immediately stumbles and falls.
And the one in whom the seed was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the worries of the world and the deceitfulness of riches drown the word, and it remains fruitless.
But the one in whom the seed was sown in good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it, this one does bear fruit and produces, one to one hundred, another to sixty and another to thirty.
Jesus told them another parable, saying: The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field.
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and left.
When the wheat sprouted and produced grain, then the tares also appeared.
And the servants of the owner went and said to him: "Lord, did you not sow good seed in your field? How, then, does it have tares?"
He said to them, "An enemy has done this." And the servants * said to him, "Do you want us to go and collect it, then?"
But he said *: "No, lest by gathering the tares you pluck the wheat along with it.
Let them both grow together until the harvest; and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers: "First gather the tares and tie them in bundles to burn them, but collect the wheat in my barn" ".
He told them another parable, saying: The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and planted in his field,
and that of all the seeds it is the smallest; but when it has grown, it is the greatest of vegetables, and it becomes a tree, so that THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN come and NEST IN ITS BRANCHES.
He told them another parable: The kingdom of heaven is similar to the leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until everything was fermented.
All this Jesus spoke in parables to the multitudes, and spoke nothing to them without parable,
so that what was said through the prophet could be fulfilled, when he said: I WILL OPEN MY MOUTH IN PARABLES; I WILL TALK ABOUT HIDDEN THINGS FROM THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD.
Then he left the crowd and entered the house. And his disciples came to him, saying: Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field.
And He answered and said: He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man,
and the field is the world; and the good seed are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the evil one;
and the enemy that sowed it is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels.
Therefore, just as the tares are collected and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the world.
The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all who are stumbling blocks and those who do iniquity;
and they will cast them into the fiery furnace; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then THE RIGHTEOUS WILL SHINE LIKE THE SUN in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears, let him hear.
The kingdom of heaven is similar to a treasure hidden in the field, that when a man finds it, he hides it again, and with joy for it, he goes, sells everything he has and buys that field.
The kingdom of heaven is also like a merchant looking for fine pearls,
and finding a pearl of great value, he went and sold everything he had and bought it.
The kingdom of heaven is also similar to a sweeping net that was cast into the sea, and collected fish of all kinds;
and when it was full, they took it to the beach; and they sat down and gathered the good fish in baskets, but they cast out the bad.
So it will be at the end of the world; the angels will go out, and will bring out the wicked from among the righteous,
and they will throw them into the fiery furnace; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Have you understood all these things? They said to him *: Yes.
And He said to them, That is why every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house who takes out of his treasure new things and old things.
And it happened that when Jesus finished these parables, he left there.
And coming to his people, he taught them in his synagogue, in such a way that they marveled and said: Where did he get this wisdom and these miraculous powers?
Is not this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother called Mary, and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas?
Are not all his sisters with us? Where then did he get all these things?
And they were scandalized because of Him. But Jesus said to them: There is no prophet without honor, except in his own land and in his house.
And he did not do many miracles there because of their unbelief.
At that time Herod the Tetrarch heard the fame of Jesus,
And he said to his servants: This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers work in him.
Because Herod had seized John, bound him and put him in jail because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife;
because Juan said to him: It is not licit to have it.
And although Herod wanted to kill him, he was afraid of the people, because they considered John as a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday came, Herodias's daughter danced before them and pleased Herod.
So he promised with an oath to give her what she asked for.
She, instigated by her mother, said *: Give me here, on a tray, the head of John the Baptist.
And though the king was saddened, because of his oaths and his guests, he ordered them to be given to him;
and he had John beheaded in prison.
And they brought his head on a tray and gave it to the girl, and she took it to her mother.
John's disciples came and collected the body and buried it; and they went and reported it to Jesus.
Hearing this, Jesus retired from there in a boat, alone, to a deserted place; and when the crowds knew it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
And when he disembarked, he saw a great crowd, and had compassion on them and healed his sick.
At dusk the disciples approached him, saying: The place is deserted and the hour is already advanced; Therefore, send the crowds away to go to the villages and buy food.
But Jesus said to them: There is no need for you to go; feed them.
Then they said to him, "We have here only five loaves and two fishes.
He said to them: Bring them here to me.
And commanding the crowd to lie down on the grass, he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, blessed the food, and breaking the loaves, he gave them to the disciples and the disciples to the crowd.
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they collected what was left of the pieces: twelve full baskets.
And those who ate were about 5,000 men, not counting the women and children.
He immediately made the disciples get into the boat and go before Him to the other shore, while He dismissed the crowd.
After dismissing the crowd, he went up the mountain alone to pray; and at dusk he was there alone.
But the boat was already many stages of land, and was hit by the waves, because the wind was contrary.
And on the fourth watch of the night, Jesus came to them walking on the sea.
And the disciples, seeing him walk on the sea, were troubled, and said: He is a ghost! And in fear, they began to scream.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying: Be of good cheer, it is I; fear not.
Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it is you, send me to come to you on the waters.
And He said: Come. And Peter got down from the boat, walked on the water, and went towards Jesus.
But seeing the force of the wind, he was afraid, and starting to sink he cried out, saying: Lord, save me!
And immediately Jesus, extending his hand, held it up and said to him *: Man of little faith, why did you hesitate?
When they got into the boat, the wind died down.
Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying: Truly you are the Son of God.
After the crossing, they went ashore at Genesaret.
And when the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent to say it all over the surrounding region and they brought him all those who had some evil.
And they begged him to let them touch even the edge of his cloak; and all those who lotus were cured.
Then some scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem came to Jesus, saying:
Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? Well, they don't wash their hands when they eat bread.
And He answered and said to them: Why do you also break God's command because of your tradition?
Because God said: "HONOR YOUR FATHER AND YOUR MOTHER", and: "WHOever SPEAKS EVIL OF THEIR FATHER OR THEIR MOTHER, DIE."
But you say: "Anyone who says to his father or his mother:" All that you could be helped is an offering to God, "
he will no longer need to honor his father or mother. "And so you invalidated the word of God because of your tradition.
You hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied well of you when he said:
"THIS PEOPLE WITH LIPS HONORS ME, BUT THEIR HEART IS VERY FAR FROM ME.
MORE IN VAIN THEY WORSHIP ME, TEACHING LIKE DOCTRINE PRECEPTS OF MEN. "
And calling the crowd together, he said to them: Hear and understand:
it is not what enters the mouth that contaminates man; but what comes out of the mouth, that is what contaminates man.
Then the disciples came to him and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were scandalized when they heard your words?
But He answered and said: Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted.
Leave them; they are blind guides of the blind. And if a blind man guides another blind man, they will both fall into the hole.
Peter answered and said to him: Explain to us the parable.
And He said: Are you also still lacking in understanding?
Don't you understand that everything that enters the mouth goes to the stomach and then is eliminated?
But what comes out of the mouth comes from the heart, and that is what contaminates man.
Because from the heart come bad thoughts, homicides, adulteries, fornications, robberies, false testimonies and slander.
These things are what pollute man; but eating without washing your hands does not contaminate man.
When Jesus left there, he withdrew to the region of Tire and Sidon.
And behold, a Canaanite woman who had left that region began to cry out, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is terribly demonized.
But He did not answer her a word. And his disciples came to him and begged him, saying, "Pay attention to her, for she is crying after us."
And He answered and said, I have not been sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But as she approached, she fell down before Him, saying: Lord, help me!
And He answered and said: It is not right to take the children's bread, and throw it to the dogs.
But she said: Yes, Lord; but also the dogs eat from the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus answering said to her: O woman, great is your faith; let it happen to you as you wish. And her daughter was healthy from that moment.
And as Jesus passed from there, he came by the Sea of ​​Galilee, and going up the mountain, he sat there.
And great multitudes came to Him, bringing with them the lame, the crippled, the blind, the dumb, and many other sick people, and put them at His feet, and He healed them;
so that the crowd marveled when they saw that the dumb spoke, the crippled were restored, the lame walked and the blind saw; and they glorified the God of Israel.
Then Jesus, calling his disciples together, said to them: I have compassion for the crowd, because they have been with me for three days and have nothing to eat; and I don't want to fire them without eating, lest they faint along the way.
And the disciples * said to him: Where in the desert would we get so many loaves to satisfy such a large crowd?
Jesus then said to them *: How many loaves do you have? And they answered: Seven, and a few little fishes.
And He commanded the crowd to lie down on the ground;
and took the seven loaves and the fishes; and after giving thanks, he broke them and began to give them to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
And they all ate and were satisfied; and they collected from what was left of the pieces, seven full baskets.
Four thousand men ate, not counting women and children.
And after dismissing the crowd, he got into the boat and went to the Magadan region.
Then the Pharisees and Sadducees approached Jesus, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
But He answered and said to them: In the evening you say: "It will be good weather, because the sky is reddish."
And in the morning: "Today there will be a storm, because the sky is reddish and threatening." Can you discern the appearance of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of the times?
A wicked and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and it will not be given a sign, but the sign of Jonah. And leaving them, he left.
The disciples, when passing to the other side, had forgotten to take bread.
And Jesus said to them, Be vigilant and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they argued among themselves, saying: He says it because we don't eat bread.
But Jesus, realizing it, said: Men of little faith, why do you argue among yourselves that you have no bread?
Do you still not understand or remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets did you collect?
Not even the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets did you collect?
How come you don't understand that I didn't tell you about the loaves? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Then they understood that he had not told them to beware of the leaven of the loaves, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
When Jesus arrived in the Caesarea region of Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying: Who do men say the Son of Man is?
And they said: Some, John the Baptist; and others, Elías; but others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said to them *: And you, who do you say that I am?
Simon Peter answered and said: You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus answering said to him, Blessed are you, Simon, the son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
I also tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church; and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven; And what you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And what you loose on earth will be released in heaven.
He then commanded the disciples to tell no one that He was the Christ.
Since then, Jesus Christ began to declare to his disciples that he should go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and be resurrected on the third day.
And taking him aside, Peter began to rebuke him, saying: God forbid, Lord! That will never happen to you.
But turning around, he said to Peter: Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me; because you are not thinking of the things of God, but of those of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me.
Because whoever wants to save his life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
For what profit will a man gain if he gains the whole world, but loses his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of Man is to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, AND THEN HE WILL REWARD EACH ONE ACCORDING TO HIS CONDUCT.
Truly I tell you, there are some of those who are here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.
Six days later, Jesus took * Peter with him, Jacoboy with John his brother, and took them * apart to a high mountain;
and was transfigured before them; and his face shone like the sun, and his garments turned white as light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them speaking with Him.
Then Peter, taking the floor, said to Jesus: Lord, it is good to be here; If you want, I will make three branches here, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.
While I was still speaking, behold, a luminous cloud covered them; And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased; Hear him.
When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified.
Then Jesus approached them, and touching them, said: Arise, and fear not.
And when they raised their eyes they saw no one but Jesus alone.
As they were descending the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying: Tell no one about the vision until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And He answering said, Elijah certainly comes, and will restore all things;
But I tell you that Elijah has already come and they did not recognize him, but did everything they wanted to him. So also the Son of Man will suffer at their hands.
Then the disciples understood that he had told them about John the Baptist.
When they reached the crowd, a man approached him, kneeling before him, saying:
Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is epileptic and suffers terribly, because many times he falls into the fire and many times into the water.
And I brought it to your disciples and they couldn't cure it.
Jesus answered and said: O unbelieving and wicked generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I have to bear you? Bring it to me here.
And Jesus rebuked him and the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed from that moment.
Then the disciples, coming to Jesus in private, said: Why we could not expel him?
And He * said to them: Because of your little faith; for truly I say to you that if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, "Go from here to there," and it will pass; and nothing will be impossible for you.
But this class comes out only with prayer and fasting.
As they walked through Galilee together, Jesus said to them: The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.
And they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise again. And they were very sad.
When they arrived at Capernaum, those who collected the tax of two drachmas approached Pedro and said: Does your master not pay the two drachmas?
He said *: Yes. And when he got home, Jesus anticipated him, saying: What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the land, their children or strangers collect tributes or taxes?
And when he answered: Of strangers, Jesus said to him: Then the children are exempt.
However, lest we scandalize them, go to the sea, cast the hook, and take the first fish that comes out; and when you open his mouth you will find a stater; take it and give it to you and me.
At that moment the disciples approached Jesus, saying: Who, then, is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
And He, calling a child, put him in their midst,
And he said: Truly I tell you that if you do not convert and become like children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
So anyone who humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receives a child like this in my name receives me.
But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better if they hung a millstone around their neck that moves an ass, and drowned in the deep sea.
Woe to the world for its stumbling blocks! Because it is inevitable that stumbling blocks will come; but woe to that man through whom stumbling comes!
And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away from you; it is better for you to enter life with one hand or lame, than having two hands and two feet, being cast into the eternal fire.
And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away from you. It is better for you to enter life with only one eye, than having two eyes, to be cast into the hell of fire.
See that you do not despise one of these little ones, because I tell you that his angels in heaven always contemplate the face of my Father who is in heaven.
Because the Son of Man has come to save what was lost.
What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has strayed, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains, and go in search of the straying?
And if it does happen to find it, I truly tell you that it rejoices more over this than over the ninety-nine that have not gone astray.
Thus, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
And if your brother sins, go and rebuke him alone; If he listens to you, you have won your brother.
But if he doesn't listen to you, take one or two more with you, so that EVERY WORD IS CONFIRMED BY THE MOUTH OF TWO OR THREE WITNESSES.
And if you refuse to listen to them, tell the church; And if he also refuses to listen to the church, be for you as the Gentile and the tax collector.
Truly I say to you: whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven; And whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.
Furthermore, I tell you that if two of you agree on anything they ask for here on earth, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in their midst.
Then Peter came up to him and said, Lord, how many times will my brother sin against me that I will forgive him? Up to seven times?
Jesus said to him *: I do not tell you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven.
So the kingdom of heaven can be compared to a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.
And as he began to adjust them, he was presented with one that owed him ten thousand talents.
But since he did not have what to pay, his lord ordered them to sell him, along with his wife and children and everything he owned, and thus pay the debt.
Then the servant fell prostrate before him, saying: "Be patient with me and I will pay you all."
And the lord of that servant had compassion, and released him and forgave him the debt.
But when that servant came out, he found one of his servants who owed him a hundred denarii, and reaching for him, drowned him, saying: "Pay what you owe."
Then his servant, falling at his feet, begged him, saying: "Be patient with me and I will pay you."
However, he did not want to, but went and threw him in jail until he paid what he owed.
So when their servants saw what had happened, they were very sad, and they went and told their lord everything that had happened.
Then, calling him his lord, he said to him: "Evil servant, I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.
Shouldn't you also have felt sorry for your fellow servant, just as I felt sorry for you? "
And enraged his lord, he handed him over to the executioners until he paid all that was owed to him.
So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if you do not forgive each one his brother from the heart.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these words, he left Galilee and went to the region of Judea, across the Jordan;
Large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
And some Pharisees came to him to test him, saying: Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?
And Jesus answering said, Have you not read that the one who created them, FROM THE BEGINNING MADE THEM MALE AND FEMALE,
and added: "FOR THIS REASON MAN WILL LEAVE HIS FATHER AND FATHER AND JOIN HIS WOMAN, AND THE TWO WILL BE ONE SINGLE FLESH"?
Therefore they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has united, no man separates.
They said to him *: Then why did Moses command to give him a letter of divorce and to reject it?
He said to them *: Because of the hardness of your heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives; but it has not been so from the beginning.
And I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for infidelity, and marries another, commits adultery.
The disciples said to him *: If this is the relationship of the man with his wife, it is not convenient to marry.
But He said to them: Not everyone can accept this precept, but only those to whom it has been given.
For there are eunuchs who were thus born from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Whoever can accept this, let him accept it.
Then some children were brought to him to lay hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said: Leave the children, and do not prevent them from coming to me, because of those who are like these is the kingdom of heaven.
And after putting his hands on them, he left there.
And behold, one came to him and said: Master, what good will I do to obtain eternal life?
And He said to him: Why do you ask me about the good? Only One is good; but if you want to enter life, keep the commandments.
He said to her *: Which ones? And Jesus answered: YOU WILL NOT KILL; YOU WILL NOT COMMIT ADULTERY; Thou shalt not steal; YOU WILL NOT GIVE A FALSE WITNESS;
HONOR YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER; and YOU WILL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF.
The young man said to him: "All this I have kept; What am I still missing?
Jesus said to him: If you want to be perfect, go and sell what you own and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me
But when the young man heard these words, he left sad, because he owned many goods.
And Jesus said to his disciples: Truly I tell you, it is difficult for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Hearing this, the disciples were filled with wonder, and they said: Then who can be saved?
But Jesus, looking at them, said to them: For men this is impossible, but for God everything is possible.
Then Peter answered and said to him: Behold, we have left everything and we have followed you; What then will we receive?
And Jesus said to them: Truly I say to you that you who have followed me, in regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, you will also sit on twelve thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children or land for my name's sake, will receive a hundred times more, and will inherit eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
Book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham.
Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac Jacob, and Jacob Judah and his brothers;
Judah begot Phares and Zara from Tamar, Fares begot Esrom, and Esrom begot Aram;
Aram begot Aminadab, Aminadab Naasson, and Naason Salmon;
Salmon begot Boaz from Rahab, Boaz begot Obed from Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse;
Jesse begot King David. And David begot Solomon by the woman of Uriah.
Solomon fathered Roboam, Roboam Abijah, and Abijah Asa;
Asa begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat Joram, and Joram Uzziah;
Uzziah begot Jotham, Jotham Ahaz, and Ahaz Hezekiah;
Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh Amon, and Amon Josiah;
Josiah fathered Jeconiah and his brothers during the deportation to Babylon.
After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconías fathered to Salatiel, and Salatiel to Zorobabel;
Zerubbabel begot Abiud, Abiud Eliaquim, and Eliaquim Azor;
Azor sired Sadoc, Sadoc Aquim, and Aquim Eliud;
Eliud begot Eleazar, Eleazar Mattan, and Mattan Jacob;
Jacob fathered Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom Jesus was born, called the Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ, fourteen generations.
And the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. Her mother Mary being married to Joseph, before the marriage was consummated, it was found that she had conceived by the work of the Holy Spirit.
And José her husband, being a just man and not wanting to defame her, wanted to secretly abandon her.
But while he was thinking about this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in dreams, saying: Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to receive Mary your wife, because the Child who has begotten herself is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus, because He will save his people from their sins.
All this happened to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through the prophet, saying:
Behold, the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will name him Emmanuel, which translated means: God with us.
And when Joseph awoke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took his wife with him;
and kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son; and he named him Jesus.
And when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of King Herod, behold, magi came from the east to Jerusalem,
saying: Where is the King of the Jews who has been born? Because we have seen his star in the east and we come to adore him.
And hearing this, King Herod was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And, having summoned all the chief priests and the scribes of the people, he asked them where the Christ was to be born.
And they said to him: In Bethlehem of Judea, because thus it is written by the prophet:
And you, Bethlehem, from the land of Judah, you are not the smallest among the princes of Judah; for out of you will come a guide, who will feed my people Israel.
Then Herod, secretly calling the magicians, diligently inquired of them the time when the star had appeared;
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, "Go there, and ask diligently about the child, and when you find him, let me know, so that I too may go and worship him."
And they, having heard the king, went away; and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, until, coming, it stopped over where the child was.
And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with great joy.
And when they entered the house, they saw the boy with his mother Maria, and falling down, they adored him; And opening their treasures, they offered him presents: gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.
But warned by revelation, in dreams, not to return to Herod, they returned to their land by another way.
And when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you, because Herod will happen will look for the boy to kill him.
And he, awakening, took the child and his mother at night, and went to Egypt;
and he was there until Herod's death, so that what the Lord declared through the prophet would be fulfilled, when he said: From Egypt I called my Son.
Herod then, when he was mocked by the magicians, was very angry, and ordered to kill all the children under two years old who were in Bethlehem and in all its surroundings, according to the time he had found out about the magicians.
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, when he said:
Voice was heard in Ramah, great lamentation, weeping and moaning; Rachel who cries for her children, and did not want to be comforted, because they perished.
But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream in Egypt,
saying, Arise, and take the child and its mother, and go to the land of Israel, those who were trying to kill the child have already died.
So he got up and took the boy and his mother and went to the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea instead of Herod, his father, he was afraid to go there; and warned by revelation, in dreams, he went to the region of Galilee.
And he came and lived in the city called Nazareth, so that what was said through the prophets, that he was to be called a Nazarene, would be fulfilled.
Because the kingdom of heaven is similar to a landowner who left very early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard.
And having agreed with the workers on a denarius a day, he sent them to his vineyard.
And he went out at about the third hour, and he saw others who were out of work standing in the square;
and to these he said, "Go also into the vineyard, and I will give you whatever is right." And they went.
He went out again at around the sixth hour and at the ninth, and did the same.
And leaving at about the eleventh hour, he found other unemployed, and said to them: "Why have you been standing here all day without working?"
They said to him *: "Because no one hired us." He said to them *: "Go also to the vineyard."
And at dusk, the lord of the vineyard * said to his steward: "Call the workers and pay them their wages, starting with the last to the first."
When those who had been hired arrived around the eleventh hour, each received a denarius.
And when those who were hired first arrived, they thought they would receive more; but they also received one denarius each.
And when they received it, they murmured against the landowner,
Saying, "The latter have worked only an hour, but you have made them equal to us who have borne the weight and scorching heat of the day."
But he answered and said to one of them: "Friend, I do you no injustice; did you not agree with me on a denarius?
Take what is yours and go; but I want to give the latter the same as you.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I want with what is mine? Or is your eye bad because I am good? "
Thus, the last will be first, and the first last.
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them:
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death;
And they will deliver him up to the Gentiles to mock him, scourge him and crucify him, and on the third day he will rise again.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him with her sons, prostrating himself before him and asking him for something.
And He said to her: What do you want? She said to him *: Order that in your kingdom these two sons of mine sit one on your right and the other on your left.
But Jesus answered and said: You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the cup that I'm going to drink? They said to him *: We can.
He said to them *: You will certainly drink my cup, but to sit on my right and on my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those who have been prepared by my Father.
Hearing this, the ten were outraged against the two brothers.
But Jesus, calling them to himself, said: You know that the rulers of the Gentiles rule over them, and that the great ones exercise authority over them.
It must not be so among you, but whoever wants to become great among you will be your servant,
and whoever wants to be first among you will be your servant;
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
As they left Jericho, a large crowd followed.
And behold, two blind men who were sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!
And the people rebuked them for being silent, but they shouted even more, saying: Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!
Jesus stopped, called them, and said: What do you want me to do for you?
They said to him *: Lord, we want our eyes to be opened.
Then Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight, and followed him.
When they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, by the Mount of Olives, Jesus then sent two disciples,
saying to them: Go to the village in front of you, and you will immediately find a donkey tied and a colt with it; untie her and bring them to me.
And if someone says something to you, say: "The Lord needs you"; and will send them right away.
This happened so that what was said through the prophet could be fulfilled, when he said:
SAY TO THE DAUGHTER OF SIÓN: "LOOK, YOUR KING COMES TO YOU, HUMBLE AND RIDING ON AN ASS, AND ON A CHICKEN, SON OF CARGO BEAST".
So the disciples went and did just as Jesus had commanded them,
and they brought the donkey and the colt; they put their cloaks on them, and Jesus sat on them.
Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road; others cut tree branches and spread them on the road.
And the crowds that went before Him, and those that followed, shouted, saying: Hosanna to the Son of David! BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD! Hosanna in the high!
When He entered Jerusalem, the whole city shook, and they said: Who is this?
And the crowds answered: This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth in Galilee.
And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold the doves.
And he said to them *: It is written: "MY HOUSE WILL BE CALLED A HOUSE OF PRAYER", but you are making it CAVE OF THIEVES.
And in the temple the blind and the lame came to him, and he healed them.
But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonders he had done, and the boys who were crying out in the temple and saying: Hosanna to the Son of David !, they were outraged
and they said to him: Do you hear what these say? And Jesus answered them *: Yes, have you never read: "FROM THE MOUTH OF LITTLE AND CHILDREN OF CHEST YOU HAVE PREPARED PRAISE"?
And leaving them, he went out of the city, to Bethany, and stayed there.
In the morning, when he returned to the city, he was hungry.
And when he saw a fig tree by the road, he approached it, but found nothing in it but only leaves, and said to him, "Fruit of you will never again sprout. And instantly the fig tree was dried.
Seeing this, the disciples marveled and said: How is it that the fig tree dried up instantly?
Jesus answered and said to them: Truly I say to you that if you have faith and do not hesitate, you will not only do the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain: "Take off and throw yourself into the sea", it will happen.
And whatever you ask for in prayer, believing, you will receive.
When Jesus arrived at the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people approached him as he taught, saying: By what authority do you do these things, and who gave you this authority?
And Jesus answering said to them: I will also ask you a question, that if you answer it, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things.
Where did the baptism of John come from, from heaven or from men? And they ran among themselves, saying: If we say: "From heaven", He will say to us: "Then why didn't you believe him?"
And if we say: "Of men", we fear the crowd; because everyone has John as a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said: We do not know. He in turn said to them: Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
But what do you think? A man had two children, and when he came to the first, he said: "Son, go, work today in the vineyard."
And he answered and said: "I don't want"; but later, repentant, it was.
And coming to the other, he said the same thing; but he answered and said: "I will go, sir"; and it wasn't.
Which of the two did the father's will? They said *: The first. Jesus said to them *: Truly I say to you that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you.
Because John came to you in the way of justice and you did not believe him, but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him; and you, seeing this, did not even regret later to believe him.
Listen to another parable. Once there was a landowner who PLANTED A VINEYARD AND FENCED IT WITH A WALL, AND DUG A WINERY IN IT AND BUILT A TOWER, leased it to some farmers and went on a trip.
And when the harvest time drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers to receive their fruits.
But the farmers, taking the servants, beat one of them, killed another, and stoned another.
Another group of servants sent again, larger than the first; and they did the same to them.
Finally he sent his son to them, saying, "They will respect my son."
But when the farmers saw the son, they said to each other: "This is the heir; come, let us kill him and take possession of his inheritance."
And they seized him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
So when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?
They said to him *: He will bring those wretches to a lamentable end, and he will lease the vineyard to other farmers who pay the fruits in due time.
Jesus said to them *: Did you never read in the Scriptures: "THE STONE THAT THE BUILDERS DROPPED, THAT ONE, HAS BECOME A CORNER STONE; THIS WAS MADE FROM THE LORD, AND IS WONDERFUL TO OUR EYES"?
That is why I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken from you and will be given to a nation that produces its fruits.
And whoever falls on this stone will be broken; but on whom she falls, she will scatter it like dust.
Hearing his parables, the chief priests and Pharisees understood that he spoke of them.
And when they tried to arrest him, they were afraid of the crowd, because they considered him a prophet.
As Jesus spoke, he spoke to them again in parables, saying:
The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who made a wedding feast for his son.
And he sent his servants to call those who had been invited to the wedding, but they refused to come.
Again he sent other servants, saying: Say to those who have been invited, "See, I have already prepared my feast; I have killed my steers and fattened animals, and everything is rigged; come to the wedding."
But they ignored it and went: one to their field, another to their businesses,
and the rest, seizing the servants, mistreated and killed them.
Then the king was enraged, and sending his armies, he destroyed those assassins and burned his city.
Then he * said to his servants, "The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy.
Go, therefore, to the exits of the roads, and invite to the weddings as many as you find. "
And those servants went out on the roads, and gathered all they found, both bad and good; and the wedding hall filled with diners.
But when the king came to see the diners, he saw one there who was not dressed in a wedding suit,
and said to him *: "Dude, how did you get in here without a wedding outfit?" And he fell silent.
Then the king said to the servants, "Tie his hands and feet, and cast him into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Because many are called, but few are chosen.
Then the Pharisees left and deliberated among themselves how to catch him, surprising him in some words.
And they sent him * his disciples along with the Herodians, saying: Master, we know that you are truthful and that you teach the way of God with truth, and you do not seek the favor of anyone, because you are impartial.
Tell us, then, what you think: Is it lawful to pay a tax to Caesar, or not?
But Jesus, knowing his malice, said: Why are you testing me, hypocrites?
Show me the currency that is used to pay that tax. And they brought him a denarius.
And He said to them *: Whose is this image and this inscription?
They said to him *: Of Caesar. Then He said to them, * Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
Hearing this, they marveled; and leaving him, they went away.
That day some Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) approached him, and asked him,
Saying: Master, Moses said: "If anyone dies without children, his brother, as a closest relative, will marry his wife and raise offspring for his brother."
Now there were seven brothers among us; and the first married, and died; but having no offspring, he left the woman to his brother;
in the same way also the second, and the third, up to the seventh.
And after all, the woman died.
Therefore, in the resurrection, of which seven will she be a woman? Because they all had it.
But Jesus answered and said to them: You are mistaken for not understanding the Scriptures or the power of God.
Because in the resurrection, they are neither married nor given in marriage, but they are like the angels of God in heaven.
And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was told you by God, when he said:
"I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
Hearing this, the crowds were amazed at his teaching.
But when the Pharisees heard that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together;
and one of them, interpreter of the law, asked him to test him:
Master, what is the great commandment of the law?
And He said to him: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.
This is the great and the first commandment.
And the second is similar to this: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.
As the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
saying: What is your opinion about the Christ? Who's his father? They said to him *: Of David.
He said to them *: Then how is it that David in the Spirit calls him "Lord", saying:
"The Lord said to my Lord," Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet ""?
For if David calls him "Lord," how is he his son?
And no one could answer him a word, nor from that day dared to ask him any more questions.
Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples,
saying: The scribes and the Pharisees have sat in the chair of Moses.
So do and observe whatever they tell you; but do not do according to their works, because they say and do not.
They tie heavy and hard-to-carry loads and put them on men's backs, but they don't want to move them with a finger.
Rather, they do all their works to be seen by men; for they widen their phylacteries and lengthen the fringes of their cloaks;
love the place of honor at banquets and the first seats in synagogues,
and respectful greetings in the squares and to be called by Rabbi men.
But you do not let them call you Rabbi; because one is your Master and you are all brothers.
And call no one your father on earth, for one is your Father, who is in heaven.
Don't let them call you preceptors; because one is your Preceptor, Christ.
But the greatest of you will be your server.
And anyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and anyone who humbles himself will be exalted.
But, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you close the kingdom of heaven before men, because neither you enter nor you allow those who are entering.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you devour the houses of the widows, even though for the pretext you make long prayers; therefore you will receive greater condemnation.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you cross the sea and the land to make a proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him a son of hell twice as much as you.
Woe to you, blind guides, who say: "It is nothing that anyone swears by the temple; but he who swears by the gold of the temple, has an obligation."
Foolish and blind, because what is more important: gold, or the temple that sanctified gold?
You also say: "It is nothing that anyone swears by the altar, but he who swears by the offering that is on him, has obligation."
Blind! Because what is more important: the offering, or the altar that sanctifies the offering?
Therefore, he who swears by the altar, swears by it and by everything that is on it;
He who swears by the temple, swears by it and by the one who dwells in it;
He who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by the one who sits on it.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you pay the tithe of mint, dill and cumin, and you have neglected the most important precepts of the law: justice, mercy and fidelity; and these are the things you should have done, without neglecting those.
Blind guides, who sneak the mosquito and swallow the camel!
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you clean the outside of the glass and the plate, but inside they are full of robbery and debauchery.
Blind Pharisee! Clean the inside of the glass and the plate first, so that the outside is also clean.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !, because you are similar to whitewashed tombs, which on the outside look beautiful, but inside they are full of dead bones and all filth.
So you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
and you say: "If we had lived in the days of our parents, we would not have been their accomplices in shedding the blood of the prophets."
So you bear witness against yourselves, that you are the children of those who murdered the prophets.
Fill up, then, the measure of your parents' guilt.
Snakes! Litter of vipers! How will you escape the judgment of hell?
Therefore, behold, I send you prophets, sages, and scribes: of them, some you will kill and crucify, and others you will flog in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city,
so that all the just blood spilled on the earth falls on you, from the blood of the just Abel to the blood of Zacharias, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Truly I tell you that all this will come from this generation.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it! How many times did I want to gather your children, like the hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you didn't want to!
Behold, your house is left to you deserted.
Because I tell you that from now on you will not see me anymore until you say: "BLESSED IS THE ONE WHO COMES IN THE NAME OF THE LORD."
When Jesus left the temple and was leaving, his disciples approached him to show him the temple buildings.
But He answered and said to them: Do you see all this? Truly I say to you: there will not be a stone left here on a stone that is not demolished.
And while He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him in private, saying: Tell us, when will this happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the consummation of this century?
Jesus answered and said to them, See that no one deceives you.
Because many will come in my name, saying: "I am the Christ", and they will deceive many.
And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Watch out! Do not be alarmed, because it is necessary for all this to happen; but it is not yet the end.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and in different places there will be famines and earthquakes.
But all this is only the beginning of pain.
Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake.
Many will then stumble and fall, and betray one another, and hate each other.
And many false prophets will arise, and many will deceive.
And because of the increase in iniquity, the love of many will grow cold.
But he who endures to the end will be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come.
Therefore, when you see the ABOMINATION OF DESOLATION, which was spoken about through the prophet Daniel, placed in the holy place (whoever reads, who understands),
then those who are in Judea, flee to the mountains;
he who is on the roof, do not go down to get things out of his house;
and let him who is in the field not go back to take his cloak.
But, woe to those who are pregnant and those who are raising in those days!
Pray that your flight does not happen in winter or on the Sabbath,
for then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not happened from the beginning of the world until now, nor will it ever happen.
And if those days were not shortened, no one would be saved; but because of the elect, those days will be shortened.
So if someone says to you: "Look, here is the Christ", or "There he is", do not believe him.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show great signs and wonders, so as to deceive, if possible, even the elect.
See that I have told you beforehand.
Therefore, if they say to you: "Look, He is in the desert", do not go; or "Look, He is in the interior rooms", do not believe them.
For as the lightning comes from the east and shines to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
Wherever the carcass is, there the vultures will gather.
But immediately after the tribulation of those days, THE SUN WILL DARK, THE MOON WILL NOT GIVE ITS LIGHT, THE STARS WILL FALL from heaven and the powers of heaven will be shaken.
Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven; and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the SON OF MAN COMING ON THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN with power and great glory.
And He will send His angels with A GREAT TRUMPET and THEY WILL GATHER together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
And learn the parable from the fig tree: when its branch becomes tender and leaves its leaves, you know that summer is near.
So you also, when you see all these things, know that He is near, at the doors.
Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass until all this happens.
Heaven and earth will pass, but my words will not pass.
But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
For as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
For just as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving each other in marriage, until the day Noah entered the ark,
and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away; so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Then two will be in the field; one will be carried and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be carried and the other will be left.
Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have been alert and would not have allowed him to enter his house.
Therefore, you too, be prepared, because at the hour you do not think the Son of Man will come.
Who then is the faithful and wise servant whom his lord placed over his household to give them food in due season?
Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, finds him doing so.
Truly I tell you, he will put it on all his possessions.
But if that servant is bad, and says in his heart: "My lord will be late";
and he begins to beat his fellow servants, and eats and drinks with those who get drunk,
the lord of that servant will come the day that does not wait for him, and at an hour that he does not know,
and he will flog him severely and assign him a place with the hypocrites; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who, taking their lamps, went out to receive the bridegroom.
And five of them were foolish, and five were prudent.
For the foolish did not take oil with them when they took their lamps,
but the prudent took oil in jars along with their lamps.
When the boyfriend was late, they all got sleepy and fell asleep.
But at midnight a cry was heard: "Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him."
So all those virgins got up and fixed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the prudent: "Give us your oil, because our lamps are going out."
But the prudent responded, saying: "No, lest there is not enough for us and for you; rather go to those who sell and buy for you."
And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were prepared entered with him to the wedding banquet, and the door closed.
Then the other virgins also came, saying, "Lord, Lord, open to us."
But he answered and said: "Truly I tell you, I do not know you."
Watch therefore, because you know neither the day nor the hour.
Because the kingdom of heaven is like a man who, on a journey, called his servants and entrusted their goods to them.
And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his ability; and went on a trip.
He who had received the five talents immediately went and negotiated with them and gained five other talents.
Also the one who had received the two talents won another two.
But he who had received one went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
After a long time * the lord of those servants came, and settled * accounts with them.
And the one who had received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, "Lord, you gave me five talents; look, I have gained another five talents."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your lord."
The man with the two talents also came and said, "Lord, you gave me two talents; look, I have gained two other talents."
His lord said to him, "Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your lord."
But when he who had received a talent also arrived, he said: "Lord, I knew that you are a hard man, that you reap where you did not sow and you reap where you did not scatter,
and I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground; Look, here you have what is yours".
But his lord answered, and said to him: "Bad and lazy servant, did you know that I mow where I did not sow, and that I gather where I did not scatter.
Then you should have put my money in the bank, and on arrival I would have received my money with interest.
So take the talent from him and give it to the one with the ten talents. "
For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance; but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
And cast the useless servant into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory;
and all nations will be gathered before Him; and will separate one from another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left.
Then the King will say to those on his right: "Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Because I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger, and you received me;
I was naked, and you clothed me; sick, and you visited me; in jail, and you came to me. "
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, "Lord, when did we see you hungry, and gave you food, or thirsty, and gave you drink?
And when did we see you as a stranger, and receive you, or naked, and clothe you?
And when did we see you sick, or in prison, and come to you? "
The King answered and said to them: "Truly I say to you that as soon as you did it to one of these brothers of mine, even to the smallest ones, you did it to me."
Then he will also say to those on his left, "Depart from me, you cursed ones, to the eternal fire that has been prepared for the devil and his angels.
Because I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat, I was thirsty, and you did not give me to drink;
I was a stranger, and you did not receive me; I was naked, and you did not clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn't visit me. "
Then they will also respond, saying, "Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or as a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we did not serve you?"
He will then answer them, saying: "Truly I say to you that inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me either."
And these will go to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life.
When Jesus finished all these words, he said to his disciples:
You know that in two days Easter is celebrated, and the Son of Man will be delivered to be crucified.
Then the chief priests and the village elders gathered in the courtyard of the high priest named Caiaphas.
And they plotted among themselves to deceive Jesus and kill him.
But they said: Not during the party, so that there is not a riot in the town.
And when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
A woman came up to him with an expensive alabaster bottle of perfume, and poured it over her head when she was sitting at the table.
But when they saw this, the disciples were outraged, and they were saying: Why this waste?
Because this perfume could have been sold at a great price, and the money could have been given to the poor.
But Jesus, realizing it, said to them: Why do you disturb the woman? Well, you have done a good deed with me.
Because you will always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.
Well, when she poured this perfume on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial.
Truly I say to you: Wherever this gospel is preached, throughout the world, it will also speak of what it has done, in memory of him.
So one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,
And he said: What are you willing to give me so that I can deliver it to you? And they weighed thirty pieces of silver.
And since then I was looking for an opportunity to deliver him.
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover?
And He answered: Go to the city, to a certain man, and tell him: "The Master says:" My time is near; I want to celebrate Easter at your house with my disciples "".
Then the disciples did as Jesus had commanded them, and prepared the Passover.
In the evening He was sitting at the table with the twelve disciples.
And while they were eating, he said: Truly I tell you, one of you will hand me over.
And they, deeply saddened, began to say to him one by one: Am I, Lord?
He answered and said: He who put his hand with me on the plate, he will deliver me.
The Son of Man leaves, as it is written of Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is delivered! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.
And Judas, the one who was going to deliver him, answered and said: Is it me, Rabbi? And He said to her: You have said it.
While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and having blessed it, he broke it, and giving it to the disciples, he said: Take, eat; this is my body.
And taking a cup, and having given thanks, he gave it to him, saying: Drink all of it;
for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.
And I tell you that from now on I will not drink any more of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, "Tonight you will all turn away for my sake, for it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will scatter.'
But after I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter, answering, said to him, "Even if everyone departs because of you, I will never withdraw.
Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you that this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.
Peter said to him *: Even if I have to die with you, I will never deny you. All the disciples also said the same thing.
Then Jesus * came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said * to his disciples: Sit here while I go there and pray.
And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee with him, he began to be saddened and distressed.
Then he said to them *: My soul is very afflicted, to the point of death; stay here and watch with me.
And coming forward a little, he fell on his face, praying and saying: My father, if possible, let this cup pass from me; but not as I want, but as you want.
So he * came to the disciples and found them * sleeping, and said * to Peter: So you could not watch one hour with me?
Watch and pray that you do not enter into temptation; the spirit is willing, but the meat is weak.
Turning away again, he prayed a second time, saying: My father, if this cannot pass without my drinking it, your will be done.
And he came again and found them sleeping, for his eyes were heavy with sleep.
Leaving them again, he left and prayed a third time, saying the same words again.
Then he * came to the disciples and said to them *: Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Get up! Let's go! Look, the one who gives me is near.
While He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came accompanied by a large crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
And the betrayer had given them a sign, saying: Whoever I kiss, that is; turn him on.
And immediately he came to Jesus and said: Hail, Rabbi! And kissed him.
And Jesus said to him: Friend, do what you came to do. Then they approached, seized Jesus and seized him.
And it came to pass that one of those who were with Jesus, extending his hand, drew his sword, and striking the servant of the high priest, cut off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Or do you think I cannot beg my Father, and He would make more than twelve legions of angels available to me right now?
But how then would the Scriptures that say this must happen be fulfilled?
At that moment Jesus said to the crowd, "How about against a thief did you go out with swords and clubs to arrest me? Every day I used to sit in the temple to teach, and you didn't catch me.
But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets are fulfilled. Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.
And those who arrested Jesus brought him before the high priest Caiaphas, where the scribes and the elders were gathered.
And Peter followed him from a distance to the courtyard of the high priest, and entering, he sat with the bailiffs to see the end of all that.
And the main priests and the whole council tried to obtain false testimony against Jesus, in order to kill him,
and they did not find it despite the fact that many false witnesses appeared. But later two showed up,
They said: He declared: "I can destroy the temple of God and in three days rebuild it."
Then the high priest, rising up, said to him: Do you not answer anything? What do these testify against you?
But Jesus was silent. And the high priest said to him: I adjure you by the living God to tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus said to him *: You yourself have said it; However, I tell you that from now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying: He has blasphemed! What need do we have for more witnesses? Behold, right now you have heard the blasphemy;
what do you think? They answered and said: He is a prisoner of death!
Then they spat on his face and punched him; and others slapped him,
saying: Guess Christ, who is the one who hit you?
Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came up to him and said: You were also with Jesus the Galilean.
But he denied it in front of all of them, saying: I don't know what you're talking about.
When he came out to the portal, another servant girl saw him and said * to those who were there: This one was with Jesus the Nazarene.
And again he denied it with an oath: I don't know that man!
And a little later those who were there came up and said to Pedro: Surely you are also one of them, because even your way of speaking reveals you.
Then he began to curse and swear: I don't know that man! And instantly a rooster crowed.
And Peter remembered what Jesus had said: Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And going out, he wept bitterly.
When morning came, all the chief priests and the village elders held counsel against Jesus to put him to death.
And after they bound him, they took him away and handed him over to Pilate, the governor.
Then Judas, the one who had delivered him, seeing that Jesus had been condemned, felt remorse and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
saying: I have sinned by delivering innocent blood. But they said: What to us? Over there you!
And he, throwing the silver pieces into the sanctuary, left; and went and hanged himself.
And the chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said: It is not lawful to put them in the treasure of the temple, since it is the price of blood.
And after holding a council, they bought the Potter's Field with them for burial by outsiders.
So that field has been called the Field of Blood until today.
Then what was announced through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, when he said: AND THEY TAKEN THE THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER, THE PRICE OF WHICH PRICE HAD BEEN SET BY the children of Israel;
AND THEY GIVEN THEM THROUGH THE POTTER'S FIELD, AS THE LORD HAD COMMANDED ME.
And Jesus appeared before the governor, and he questioned him, saying: Are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus said to him: You say so.
And being accused by the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing.
Then Pilate * said to him, "Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?
And Jesus didn't answer a single question, so the governor was very amazed.
Now, at each party, the governor used to release a prisoner to the people, whoever they wanted.
And then they had a famous prisoner named Barabbas.
Therefore, when they met, Pilate said to them: Who do you want me to release to you: Barabbas or Jesus, called the Christ?
Because he knew that they had delivered him out of envy.
And while he was sitting in court, his wife sent him notice, saying: Have nothing to do with that righteous man, because today I have suffered a lot in dreams because of him.
But the chief priests and elders persuaded the crowds to ask Barabbas and to kill Jesus.
And the governor answered and said to them: Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they answered: Barabbas.
Pilate * said to them, "What then shall I do with Jesus, called the Christ?" They all said *: Be crucified!
And Pilate said: Why? What wrong has he done? But they screamed even more, saying: Be crucified!
And when Pilate saw that he was achieving nothing, but was rather forming a riot, he drank water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying: I am innocent of the blood of this righteous man; There you go!
And all the people answered and said: Let their blood fall on us and on our children!
Then he released Barabbas to them, but after Jesus had him flogged, he handed him over to be crucified.
Then the governor's soldiers brought Jesus to the Praetorium, and gathered around him the entire Roman cohort.
And stripping him, they put a scarlet cloak on him.
And weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; And kneeling before Him, they mocked Him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!
And spitting on him, they took the cane and hit him on the head.
After mocking Him, they took off His cloak, put His clothes on Him, and took Him away to crucify Him.
And when they were leaving, they found a Cyrene man named Simon, whom they forced to carry the cross.
When they got to a place called Golgotha, which means Place of the Skull,
they made him drink wine mixed with gall; but after trying it, he didn't want to drink it.
And having crucified Him, they divided their clothes, casting lots;
and sitting down they guarded him there.
And they put on his head the accusation against Him, which said: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then two thieves were crucified * with him, one on the right and one on the left.
Those who passed insulted him, shaking their heads
And saying: You who destroy the temple and in three days rebuild it, save yourself, if you are the Son of God, and come down from the cross.
In the same way, also the main priests, along with the scribes and the elders, mocking Him, said:
He saved others; You cannot save yourself. King of Israel is; let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him.
IN GOD TRUST; TO RELEASE you now IF HE WANTS YOU; because he said: "I am the Son of God".
In the same way the thieves who had been crucified with Him also insulted Him.
And from the sixth hour there was darkness over the whole earth until the ninth hour.
And around the ninth hour, Jesus exclaimed with a loud voice, saying: ELÍ, ELÍ, LEMA SABACTANI? This is: MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU DENIED ME?
Some of those who were there, when they heard it, said: This one calls Elijah.
And at once one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he soaked it in vinegar, and putting it on a reed, gave him to drink.
But the others said: Leave, let's see if Elías comes to save him.
Then Jesus, crying out again with a loud voice, breathed out the spirit.
And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in two, from top to bottom, and the earth shook and the rocks split;
and the graves were opened, and the bodies of many sleeping saints were resurrected;
and leaving the tombs, after the resurrection of Jesus, they entered the holy city and appeared to many.
When the centurion and those who were with him guarding Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, they were very scared, and said: Truly this was the Son of God.
And many women who had followed Jesus from Galilee to serve Him, were there, looking from afar;
among which were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee's sons.
And in the evening, a wealthy man from Arimathea came, named Joseph, who had also become a disciple of Jesus.
He presented himself to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered that it be delivered to him.
Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
And he put it in his new grave that he had excavated in the rock, and after rolling a large stone at the entrance of the grave, he left.
And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting in front of the grave.
The next day, which is the day after the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees gathered before Pilate,
and they said to him: Lord, we remember that when that deceiver was still alive, he said: "After three days I will rise again."
Therefore, he orders that the grave be secured until the third day, lest his disciples come, steal it, and say to the people: "He has risen from the dead"; and the last deception will be worse than the first.
Pilate said to them: You have a guard; go, secure it as you know.
And they went and made the grave secure; and in addition to putting the guard, they sealed the stone.
After the Sabbath day, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the grave.
And behold, there was a great earthquake, because an angel of the Lord descending from heaven, and approaching, he removed the stone and sat on it.
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was white as snow;
and in fear of him the guards trembled and remained as dead.
And the angel speaking, said to the women: Fear not you; because I know that you are looking for Jesus, the one who was crucified.
He is not here, because he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.
And go quickly, and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead; and behold, He goes before you into Galilee; there you will see him. Behold, I have told you.
And they, hurrying away from the grave with fear and great joy, ran to give the news to their disciples.
And behold, Jesus met them, saying: Hail! They came to him, clasped his feet and worshiped him.
Then Jesus said to them *: Fear not. Go, tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and they will see me there.
And while they were going, behold, some of the guard went to the city and informed the main priests of everything that had happened.
And after meeting with the elders and deliberating with them, they gave a large amount of money to the soldiers,
saying: Say this: "His disciples came at night and stole the body while we slept."
And if this reaches the governor's ears, we will convince him and avoid difficulties.
They took the money and did as instructed. And this saying was widely disseminated among the Jews to this day.
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain that Jesus had pointed out to them.
When they saw him, they adored him; but some doubted.
And Jesus came near and spoke to them, saying: All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost,
teaching them to keep everything that I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, to the end of the world.
In those days * John the Baptist came preaching in the Judean desert, saying:
Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Because this is the one to whom the prophet Isaiah referred, saying: Voice of the one crying out in the desert: "Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
And he, Juan, had a camel hair dress and a leather belt around his waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan came to him;
and confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
But when he saw that many of the Pharisees and Sadducees were coming for baptism, he said to them: Litter of vipers! Who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore bear fruit worthy of repentance;
and do not presume that you can say to yourselves: "We have Abraham for father", because I tell you that God can raise children to Abraham from these stones.
And the ax is already at the root of the trees; therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
I indeed baptize you with water for repentance, but he who comes after me is more powerful than I, who I am not worthy to take off his sandals; He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
The pitchfork is in his hand and will completely clean his era; and it will gather its wheat in the barn, but it will burn the straw in inextinguishable fire.
Then Jesus came * from Galilee to the Jordan, where John was, to be baptized by him.
But John tried to stop him, saying: I need to be baptized by you, and you come to me?
And Jesus answering said to him, Allow it now; because it is convenient for us to fulfill all justice in this way. So Juan allowed it *.
After being baptized, Jesus immediately came out of the water; and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming upon him.
And behold, a voice was heard from heaven saying: This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.
Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil.
And after fasting forty days and forty nights, then he was hungry.
And the tempter came up and said to him: If you are the Son of God, say that these stones become bread.
But He answering said: It is written: "Man will not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes out of the mouth of God."
Then the devil took him * to the holy city, and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple,
And he said to him: "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written:" He will entrust you to his angels ", and:" They will take you into their hands, lest your foot trip on a stone. "
Jesus said to him: It is also written: "You shall not tempt the Lord your God."
Again the devil took him * to a very high mountain, and showed him * all the kingdoms of the world and their glory,
And he said to him, "All this I will give you, if you fall down and worship me."
Then Jesus said to him *: Go, Satan! For it is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and him alone shall you serve."
The devil then left him *; and behold, angels came and served him.
When He heard that John had been imprisoned, he withdrew to Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth, he went and settled in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zabulon and Naphtali;
to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, when he said:
Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, across the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles!
The people settled in darkness saw a great light, and to those who lived in the region and shadow of death, a light shone.
Since then Jesus began to preach and say: Repent, because the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.
And walking along the Sea of ​​Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, because they were fishermen.
And he said to them *: Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Then they, instantly leaving the nets, followed him.
And passing from there, he saw two other brothers, James, son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with his father Zebedee, mending their nets, and called them.
And they, instantly leaving the boat and his father, followed him.
And Jesus went all over Galilee, teaching in his synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease in the people.
And his fame spread throughout Syria; and they brought to Him all who were sick, afflicted with various diseases and pains, demonized, epileptic and paralytic; and He healed them.
And large crowds followed him from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, and Judea, and from across the Jordan.
And when he saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain; and after sitting down, his disciples approached him.
And opening his mouth, he taught them, saying:
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.
Blessed are the humble, for they will inherit the earth.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will be satisfied.
Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
Blessed are those who seek peace, for they will be called children of God.
Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed will you be when they insult and persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you, because of me.
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for thus they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth; but if the salt has become tasteless, with what will it become salty again? It is useless now, but to be thrown out and trampled by men.
You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden;
nor is a lamp lit and placed under a bushel, but on the candlestick, and it illuminates all who are in the house.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets; I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.
Because in truth I tell you that until heaven and earth pass, not the smallest letter or one tittle of the law will be lost until everything is fulfilled.
Anyone, therefore, who annuls one of these commandments, even the smallest, and so teaches others, will be called very little in the kingdom of heaven; but whoever keeps and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I tell you that if your justice does not exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
You have heard that the ancestors were told: "Thou shalt not kill" and: "Anyone who commits murder will be guilty in court."
But I tell you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be guilty in court; and anyone who says "Raca" to his brother will be guilty before the supreme court; and anyone who says, "Idiot," will be convicted of hellfire.
So if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
leave your offering there in front of the altar, and go, be reconciled with your brother first, and then come and present your offering.
Be at ease with your adversary while you are on the road with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge to the bailiff, and you be thrown into prison.
Truly I tell you, you won't get out of there until you've paid the last penny.
You have heard that it was said, "You shall not commit adultery."
But I tell you that everyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
And if your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away from you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away from you; because it is better for you to lose one of your limbs, and not for your whole body to go to hell.
He also said to himself, "Anyone who divorces his wife should give her a divorce letter."
But I tell you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for infidelity, makes her commit adultery; and anyone who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
You have also heard that the ancestors were told: "You will not swear falsely, but you will fulfill your oaths to the Lord."
But I tell you: do not swear in any way; nor by heaven, because it is the throne of God;
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King.
You will not swear by your head, because you cannot make a single hair black or white.
Rather, let it be your speaking: "Yes, yes" or "No, no"; and what is more of this, comes from evil.
You have heard that it was said: "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth."
But I say to you: do not resist the evil one; rather, to anyone who slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other too.
And whoever wants to sue you and take your tunic off, also leave the cape.
And anyone who forces you to go a mile, go with him two.
To the one who asks you, give; and whoever wants to borrow from you, don't turn your back on him.
You have heard that it was said: "You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy."
But I say to you: love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,
that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven; because He makes his sun rise on the bad and the good, and rain on the just and unjust.
Because if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not tax collectors do the same?
And if you only greet your brothers, what do you do more than others? Do not the Gentiles also do the same?
Therefore, be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Do not judge, for not being judged.
For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with the measure with which you measure, it will be measured to you.
And why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, and you do not realize the beam that is in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, "Let me get the speck out of your eye," when the beam is in your eye?
Hypocrite! First remove the beam from your eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye.
Do not give the holy to the dogs, nor throw your pearls before the pigs, lest they stamp them with their paws, and turning you to pieces.
Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
Because everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to the caller it will be opened.
Or what man is there among you who, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone,
or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a snake?
For if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him?
Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, so do you also to them, because this is the law and the prophets.
Enter through the narrow door, because wide is the door and wide is the path that leads to perdition, and many are those who enter through it.
For the gate is narrow and the path that leads to life narrow, and few find it.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inside they are ravenous wolves.
You will know them by their fruits. Are grapes picked from thorn bushes or figs from thistles?
Thus every good tree bears good fruit; but the bad tree bears bad fruit.
A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit.
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
So by their fruits you will know them.
Not everyone who says to me, "Lord, Lord," will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will say to me in that day: "Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name did we cast out demons, and in your name did we perform many miracles?"
And then I will declare to them: "I never knew you; DEPART FROM ME, THOSE WHO PRACTICE INIQUITY."
Therefore, anyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock;
and the rain fell, the torrents came, the winds blew and hit that house; but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock.
And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand;
and the rain fell, the torrents came, the winds blew and hit that house; and it fell, and great was its destruction.
When Jesus finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching;
for he taught them as one who has authority, and not as his scribes.
And when he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him.
And behold, a leper came to him and fell down before him, saying: Lord, if you want, you can cleanse me.
And Jesus extending his hand, touched it, saying: I want to; Be clean. And instantly he was cleansed of his leprosy.
Then Jesus said to him, "Look, do not tell anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded, to serve as a testimony to them.
And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion approached him, pleading with him,
And saying: Lord, my servant is bedridden, paralyzed, suffering a lot.
And Jesus said to him, "I will go and heal him.
But the centurion answered and said: Lord, I am not worthy that you enter under my roof; but just say the word and my servant will be healthy.
Because I am also a man under authority, with soldiers under my command; and I say to this one: "Go", and he goes; and to the other: "Come", and he comes; and to my servant, "Do this," and he does it.
When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, "Truly I tell you, in Israel I have not found such great faith in anyone.
And I tell you, many will come from the east and the west, and will sit at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
But the children of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then Jesus said to the centurion: Go; just as you have believed, may it be done to you. And the servant was healed in that same hour.
When Jesus arrived at Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying in bed with a fever.
He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she got up and served him.
And in the evening they brought him many possessed; and cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all who were sick,
so that what was said through the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled when he said: THE SAME I TAKE OUR WEAKNESSES AND WEAR OUR ILLNESSES.
When Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave the order to go to the other side.
And a scribe approached him and said: Master, I will follow you wherever you go.
And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have burrows and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.
Another of the disciples said to him: Lord, let me go first and bury my father.
But Jesus said to him *: Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead.
When Jesus entered the boat, his disciples followed him.
And suddenly a great storm broke out in the sea, so that the waves covered the boat; but Jesus was asleep.
And coming to Him, they awoke Him, saying: Lord, save us, we perish!
And He said to them *: Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? Then he got up, rebuked the winds and the sea, and a great calm ensued.
And the men marveled, saying, Who is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
When he reached the other side, to the land of the Gadarenes, two demoniacs came out to meet him, coming out of the tombs, extremely violent, so that no one could pass by that path.
And they cried out, saying: What have we to do with you, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before time?
At a certain distance from them there was a herd of many pigs grazing;
and the demons begged him, saying: If you are going to drive us out, send us to the pig herd.
Then He said to them: Go! And they went out and entered the pigs; and behold, the whole herd rushed down a cliff into the sea, and perished in the waters.
Those who cared for the herd fled; and they went to the city and told everything, including that of the possessed.
And the whole city went out to meet Jesus; And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their country.
And Jesus getting into a boat, he went to the other side and came to his city.
And they brought him a paralytic lying on a stretcher; and Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic: Take heart, son, your sins are forgiven.
And some of the scribes said to themselves: This blasphemer.
And Jesus, knowing his thoughts, said: Why do you think badly in your hearts?
Because what is easier, to say: "Your sins are forgiven you", or to say: "Get up and walk"?
So that you know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins (then he said * to the paralytic): Get up, take your mat and go home.
And he getting up, went home.
But when the crowds saw this, they were afraid, and glorified God, who had given such power to men.
When Jesus left there, he saw a man named Matthew, sitting in the tribute office, and said to him *: Follow me! And getting up, he followed him.
And it came to pass that as He was sitting at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat at the table with Jesus and his disciples.
And when they saw this, the Pharisees said to their disciples: Why does your Master eat with the tax collectors and sinners?
When He heard this, He said: Those who are healthy do not need a doctor, but those who are sick.
But go, and learn what it means: "MERCY I WANT AND I DO NOT SACRIFICE"; because I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
Then John's disciples * came to him, saying: Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them: Can the groom's companions mourn while the groom is with them? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast.
And no one puts a patch of new fabric on an old dress; because the shrinking patch pulls on the dress and a worse tear occurs.
And nobody puts new wine in old wineskins, because then the wineskins burst, the wine spills and the wineskins are lost; but new wine is poured into new wineskins, and both are preserved.
While I was saying these things to them, behold, a synagogue official came and fell down before Him, saying: My daughter has just died; but come and put your hand on it, and it will live.
And Jesus arose, followed him, and his disciples also.
And behold, a woman who had been suffering from blood flow for twelve years, came up behind her and touched the hem of her cloak;
for he said to himself: If I only touch his cloak, I will heal.
But Jesus, turning and seeing her, said: Daughter, be of good cheer, your faith has healed you. And instantly the woman was healed.
When Jesus entered the officer's house, and saw the flute players and the crowd in noisy disorder,
He said to them: Retire, because the girl is not dead, but is asleep. And they mocked Him.
But when the people had been cast out, he went in and took her by the hand; and the girl got up.
And this news spread throughout that land.
As Jesus left, two blind men followed him, shouting and saying: Son of David, have mercy on us!
And after entering the house, the blind men came to Him, and Jesus said to them *: Do you think I can do this? They answered him *: Yes, Lord.
Then he touched their eyes, saying: Let it be done to you according to your faith.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus rigorously warned them, saying: See that no one knows.
But they, as soon as they left, spread their fame throughout that land.
And when they came out of there, behold, they brought him a mute demoniac.
And after the demon had been cast out, the dumb spoke; And the crowds marveled, and said: Never has such a thing been seen in Israel.
But the Pharisees said: He casts out demons by the prince of demons.
And Jesus went through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all sickness and disease.
And seeing the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were distressed and downcast like sheep without a shepherd.
Then he said to his disciples: The harvest is great, but the workers few.
Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
Brothers, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for them is for their salvation.
Because I testify in their favor that they are jealous of God, but not according to full knowledge.
For, disregarding the justice of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to the justice of God.
Because Christ is the end of the law for justice to everyone who believes.
Because Moses writes that the man who practices the justice that is of the law will live by it.
But the justice that is of faith says thus: DO NOT SAY IN YOUR HEART: "WHO WILL RISE TO HEAVEN?" (that is, to bring Christ down),
or "WHO WILL DESCEND TO THE ABYSS?" (that is, to raise Christ from the dead).
But what does it say? NEAR YOU IS THE WORD, IN YOUR MOUTH AND IN YOUR HEART, that is, the word of faith that we preach:
that if you confess Jesus with your mouth for Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved;
because with the heart it is believed for justice, and with the mouth it is confessed for salvation.
For the Scripture says: EVERYONE WHO BELIEVES IN HIM SHALL NOT BE ASHAMED.
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the Lord himself is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call upon him;
for: EVERYONE WHO INVOKE THE NAME OF THE LORD WILL BE SAVED.
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without a preacher?
And how will they preach if they are not sent? As it is written: HOW BEAUTIFUL ARE THE FEET OF THOSE WHO ANNOUNCE THE GOSPEL OF GOOD!
However, not everyone listened to the gospel, because Isaiah says: LORD, WHO HAS BELIEVED OUR ADVERTISEMENT?
So faith comes from hearing, and hearing, through the word of Christ.
But I say, have they never heard? Certainly yes: THROUGHOUT THE EARTH HIS VOICE HAS COME OUT, AND HIS WORDS TO THE END OF THE WORLD.
And I add: Did Israel not know? First of all, Moses says: I WILL BRING YOU TO HEAVEN WITH A PEOPLE THAT IS NOT A PEOPLE; WITH A PEOPLE WITH NO UNDERSTANDING I WILL TAKE YOU TO IRA.
And Isaiah is very bold, and says: I WAS FOUND BY THOSE WHO DID NOT SEEK ME; I REVEALED THEMSELVES TO THOSE WHO DID NOT ASK ABOUT ME.
But as for Israel, it says: ALL DAY I HAVE STRETCHED MY HANDS TO A DISOBEDIENT AND REBELLIOUS PEOPLE.
I say then: Has God rejected his people? No way! For I am also an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
God has not rejected his people, whom he previously knew. Or do you not know what Scripture says in the passage about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel:
Lord, THEY HAVE GIVEN DEATH TO YOUR PROPHETS, THEY HAVE DROPPED YOUR ALTARS; AND I HAVE JUST STAYED AND ATTEMPT AGAINST MY LIFE?
But what does the divine answer tell you ?: I HAVE SAVED SEVEN THOUSAND MEN WHO HAVE NOT BENT THE KNEE TO BAAL.
And in the same way, a remnant according to the election of God's grace has also remained in the present time.
But if it is by grace, it is no longer based on works, otherwise grace is no longer grace. And if by works, it is no longer grace; otherwise the work is no longer work.
So what? What Israel seeks has not reached it, but those who were chosen reached it and the others were hardened;
as it is written: GOD GAVE THEM A SPIRIT OF STUPOR, EYES WITH WHICH THEY DO NOT SEE AND EARS WITH WHICH THEY DO NOT HEAR, UNTIL TODAY.
And David says: THEIR BANQUET BECOMES A TIE AND A TRAP, AND A STUMBLING STONE AND A REMUNERATION FOR THEM.
DARK YOUR EYES SO THAT THEY CANNOT SEE, AND DOUBLE YOUR BACKES FOREVER.
I say then: Did they stumble to fall? No way! But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to cause jealousy.
And if their transgression is wealth to the world, and their failure is wealth to the Gentiles, how much more will their fullness be!
But to you I speak, Gentiles. So since I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I honor my ministry,
if in any way I can make my compatriots jealous and save some of them.
Because if excluding them is the reconciliation of the world, what will be their admission, if not life from the dead?
And if the first piece of dough is holy, so is the whole dough; and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted between them and made partakers with them of the rich sap of the olive root,
do not be arrogant towards the branches; but if you are arrogant, remember that you are not the one who supports the root, but the root is the one that supports you.
Then you will say: The branches were cut off so that I could be grafted.
Very true; they were torn apart by their unbelief, but you by faith stand firm. Do not be haughty, but fear;
because if God did not forgive the natural branches, He will not forgive you either.
Look, then, at the goodness and severity of God; severity for those who fell, but for you, goodness of God if you remain in his goodness; otherwise you too will be cut off.
And they too, if they do not remain in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is mighty to graft them in again.
Because if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and against what is natural you were grafted into a cultivated olive tree, how much more these, which are the natural branches, will be grafted into your own olive tree?
For I do not want you, brothers, to ignore this mystery, so that you are not wise in your own opinion: that Israel has undergone a partial hardening until the fullness of the Gentiles has entered;
and thus, all Israel will be saved; as it is written: THE LIBERATOR WILL COME FROM SIÓN; IT WILL REMOVE THE PROPERTY OF JACOB.
AND THIS IS MY COVENANT WITH THEM, WHEN I REMOVE THEIR SINS.
As for the gospel, they are enemies because of you; but as for the election of God, they are loved because of the parents;
because the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable.
For just as you were once disobedient to God, but now you have been shown mercy by reason of their disobedience,
so now also these have been disobedient, so that by the mercy shown to you, also to them now may mercy be shown.
Because God has locked everyone in disobedience to show mercy to everyone.
O depth of riches and of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!
Well, WHO HAS KNOWN THE MIND OF THE LORD ?, OR WHO BECAME HIS COUNSELOR ?,
OR WHO HAS GIVEN HIM FIRST SO THAT HE MUST BE REWARDED?
Because from Him, through Him and for Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen.
Therefore, brethren, I beg you by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your rational worship.
And do not adapt to this world, but transform yourself by renewing your mind, so that you can verify what is the will of God: what is good, acceptable and perfect.
Because by virtue of the grace that has been given to me, I tell each one of you not to think more highly of yourself than you should think, but to think with good judgment, according to the measure of faith that God has distributed to each one .
Well just as in a body we have many members, but not all members have the same function,
thus we, who are many, are one body in Christ and individually members of one another.
But having gifts that differ, according to the grace that has been given to us, let us use them: if that of prophecy, be used in proportion to faith;
if the service, in serving; or he who teaches, in teaching;
he who exhorts, in exhortation; the one who gives, liberally; the one who directs, diligently; the one who shows mercy, with joy.
Love be without hypocrisy; hating the bad, applying yourself to the good.
Be affectionate with one another with brotherly love; with honor, give preference to one another;
do not be lazy in what requires diligence; fervent in spirit, serving the Lord,
rejoicing in hope, persevering in suffering, dedicated to prayer,
contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep.
Have the same feeling with each other; do not be haughty in your thinking, but condescending with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion.
Never pay anyone wrong for wrong. Respect good in front of all men.
If possible, as far as you depend, be at peace with all men.
Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but give place to the wrath of God, because it is written: Mia is revenge, I will pay, says the Lord.
But if your enemy is hungry, feed him; and if he is thirsty, give him a drink, because by doing this, burning coals you will pile on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Let every person submit to the governing authorities; because there is no authority but of God, and those that exist, by God are constituted.
Therefore, he who resists authority, has been opposed to what God has ordained; and those who have opposed themselves will receive condemnation.
For the rulers are not a cause of fear for those of good conduct, but for him who does evil. Do you wish, then, not to fear authority? Do good and you will have praise from her,
for he is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do wrong, fear; for it is not in vain that he carries the sword, for he is a minister of God, an avenger who punishes those who practice evil.
Therefore, it is necessary to submit, not only because of punishment, but also because of conscience.
Well, for this you also pay taxes, because the rulers are servants of God, dedicated precisely to this.
Pay everyone what you owe: the one who imposed, imposed; to whom tribute, tribute; to whom fear, fear; to which honor, honor.
You owe nothing to anyone but to love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has kept the law.
Because this: You will not commit adultery, you will not kill, you will not steal, you will not covet, and any other commandment, in these words is summed up: You will love your neighbor as yourself.
Love does no harm to neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.
And do all this, knowing the time, that it is time to wake up from sleep; because now salvation is closer to us than when we believed.
The night is well advanced, and the day is near. Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the weapons of light.
Let us walk decently, as in daylight, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lusts, not in lawsuits and envies;
Rather, put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think of providing for the lusts of the flesh.
Accept the weak in faith, but not to judge their opinions.
One has faith that he can eat anything, but he who is weak eats only vegetables.
He who eats does not despise him who does not eat, and he who does not eat does not judge him who eats, because God has accepted him.
Who are you to judge someone else's servant? For his own master he stands or falls, and he will remain standing, because the Lord is powerful to hold him up.
One judges that one day is superior to another, another judges the same every day. Each one is fully convinced according to his own feelings.
He who keeps a certain day keeps it for the Lord; and he who eats, for the Lord eats, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat abstains from the Lord and thanks God.
For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself;
for if we live, for the Lord we live, and if we die, for the Lord we die; therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's.
Because for this Christ died and rose again, to be Lord of both the dead and the living.
But you, why do you judge your brother? Or also, you, why do you look down on your brother? For we will all appear before the judgment seat of God.
For it is written: As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow before me, and every tongue shall praise God.
So each of us will give an account of himself to God.
Therefore, let us no longer judge each other, but rather decide this: not to put obstacle or stumbling block to the brother.
I know, and I am convinced in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in itself; but for those who consider that something is unclean, for him it is.
Because if your brother is saddened by food, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died.
Therefore do not allow evil to be spoken of what is good for you.
Because the kingdom of God is not food or drink, but justice and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves Christ in this way is acceptable to God and approved by men.
So let us seek what contributes to peace and mutual edification.
Don't destroy God's work because of food. Actually, all things are clean, but they are bad for the man who scandalizes another by eating.
It is better not to eat meat, or drink wine, or do anything that your brother trips over.
The faith that you have, have it according to your own conviction before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves.
But he who doubts, if he eats, he condemns himself, because he does not do it by faith; and everything that does not come from faith is sin.
So we who are strong must bear the weaknesses of the weak and not please ourselves.
Each one of us pleases his neighbor in what is good for his edification.
For even Christ did not please himself; rather, as it is written: THE VITUPERIES OF THOSE WHO INJURED YOU FELL ON ME.
Because everything that was written in times past was written for our teaching, so that through patience and the comfort of the Scriptures we have hope.
And may the God of patience and comfort grant you to have the same feelings towards each other according to Christ Jesus,
so that with one voice, with one voice, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore accept one another, just as Christ accepted us for the glory of God.
For I tell you that Christ became the servant of circumcision to demonstrate the truth of God, to confirm the promises given to parents,
and for the Gentiles to glorify God for his mercy; as it is written: THEREFORE, I WILL CONFESS YOU AMONG THE GENTILES, AND I WILL SING IN YOUR NAME.
And he says again: REJOICE, GENTILES, WITH YOUR PEOPLE.
And again: PRAISE THE LORD ALL THE GENTILES, AND PRAISE ALL THE PEOPLES.
And in turn, Isaiah says: THE ROOT OF ISAÍ, THE ONE WHO RISES TO RULE THE GENTILES, WILL RETOINT. THE GENTILES WILL PUT HIS HOPE ON HIM.
And the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.
As for you, my brothers, I myself am also convinced that you are full of goodness, full of all knowledge and also capable of admonishing each other.
But I have boldly written to you about some things, in order to make you remember them again, by the grace that was given to me by God,
to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, ministering as a priest the gospel of God, so that the offering I make of the Gentiles is acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Therefore, in Christ Jesus I have found reason to glory in things that refer to God.
For I dare not speak of anything but of what Christ has done through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, in word and in deed,
with the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and the surroundings to the Illyrian I have preached in all its fullness the gospel of Christ.
In this way I endeavored to announce the gospel, not where Christ was already known, so as not to build on the foundation of another;
but as it is written: THOSE WHO HAVE NEVER BEEN ANNOUNCED ABOUT HIM, WILL SEE, AND THOSE WHO HAVE NOT HEARD, WILL UNDERSTAND.
For this reason many times I have been prevented from going to you,
but now, with no more places left for me in these regions, and since for many years I have had a great desire to come to you,
When I go to Spain I will come to you, because I hope to see you in passing and that you help me to continue there, after I have enjoyed your company a little.
But now I am going to Jerusalem for the service of the saints,
for Macedonia and Achaia have seen fit to collect for the poor from among the saints in Jerusalem.
Yes, they did well to do it, and the truth is that they are indebted to them. For if the Gentiles have partaken of their spiritual goods, they are also bound to serve the saints in material goods.
So when I have fulfilled this and I have given you this offering, I will go to Spain arriving on my way to see you.
And I know that when I come to you, I will go in the fullness of Christ's blessing.
I beg you, brothers, for our Lord Jesus Christ and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,
that I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service to Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
and so that with joy I come to you by the will of God, and find comforting rest with you.
The God of peace be with you all. Amen.
I recommend you to our sister Phoebe, deaconess of the church in Cencrea;
that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you help her in any matter in which she needs you, because she has also helped many and even myself.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my collaborators in Christ Jesus,
who laid down their lives for me, whom I thank not only, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Also greet the church that is in his house. Greet my dear brother Epeneto, who is the first convert to Christ in Asia.
Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and fellow prisoners, who stand out among the apostles and who also came to Christ before me.
Greet Amplias, my dear brother in the Lord.
Greet Urbano, our collaborator in Christ, and my dear brother Estaquis.
Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ. Greet those of Aristobulus' house.
Say hello to Herodion, my relative. Greet those in Narcissus' house, who are from the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, workers of the Lord. Greet dear sister Persida, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Greet Rufo, chosen in the Lord, also his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas and the brothers with them.
Greet Philologist and Julia, Nereo and his sister, and Olimpas and all the saints who are with them.
Greet each other with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
And I beg you, brothers, to watch over those who cause dissension and stumbling against the teachings that you learned, and to stay away from them.
For such are slaves, not of Christ our Lord, but of their own appetites, and by soft and flattering words they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Because the news of your obedience has spread to everyone; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise for good and innocent for evil.
And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy, my collaborator, greets you, and so do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
I, Third, who write this letter, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, host of me and of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and Brother Fourth.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And to him who is powerful to affirm you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that has been kept secret for endless centuries,
but which has now been made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, has been made known to all nations to guide them to obedience of faith,
to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be the glory forever. Amen.
Paul, servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,
that He had already promised through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
about his Son, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh,
and that he was declared the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead: our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have received grace and the apostolate to promote obedience to the faith among all Gentiles, for the love of his name;
among whom are also you, called of Jesus Christ;
To all the loved ones of God who are in Rome, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First of all, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is spoken of throughout the world.
For God, whom I serve in my spirit in the preaching of the gospel of his Son, is a witness to me how I ceaselessly mention you
always in my prayers, imploring that now, at last, by the will of God, I may come to you.
Because I long to see you to impart some spiritual gift, so that you may be confirmed;
that is, so that when I am among you we can comfort each other, each for the other's faith, both yours and mine.
And I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often made plans to visit you (and until now I have been hindered) in order to obtain some fruit also among you, as well as among the other Gentiles.
I have an obligation both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, to the wise and to the ignorant.
So, for my part, I am eager to announce the gospel also to you who are in Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes; of the Jew first and also of the Greek.
Because in the gospel the justice of God is revealed by faith and for faith; as it is written: BUT THE RIGHTEOUS BY FAITH WILL LIVE.
Because the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and injustice of men, who unjustly restrict the truth;
for what is known about God is evident within them, for God made it evident to them.
Because since the creation of the world, its invisible attributes, its eternal power and divinity, have been clearly seen, being understood through the created, so that they have no excuse.
For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God nor did they give thanks, but they became vain in their reasoning and their foolish heart was darkened.
Professing to be wise, they became fools,
and they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man, of birds, of quadrupeds and of reptiles.
Therefore, God gave them over to impurity in the lust of their hearts, so that they dishonored each other their own bodies;
because they exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and they adored and served the creature instead of the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions; because his women changed the natural function for the one that is against nature;
and in the same way also the men, abandoning the natural use of the woman, ignited in their lust with each other, committing shameful acts men with men, and receiving in themselves the corresponding punishment for their loss.
And since they did not see fit to recognize God, God gave them over to a depraved mind, to do the things that are not convenient;
being full of all injustice, wickedness, greed and malice; filled with envy, homicide, lawsuits, deception and malignancy; they are gossips,
detractors, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
without understanding, unworthy of trust, without love, ruthless;
Although they know the decree of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do them, but also give their approval to those who practice them.
For which you have no excuse, oh man, whoever you are who judges, because when you judge another, you condemn yourself, because you who judge practice the same things.
And we know that God's judgment justly falls on those who practice such things.
And do you think this, O man, you who condemn those who practice such things and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you have little regard for the riches of his goodness, tolerance and patience, ignoring that God's goodness guides you to repentance?
But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are accumulating anger for yourself in the day of wrath and the revelation of God's righteous judgment,
which will pay each one according to his works:
those who, by perseverance in doing good, seek glory, honor and immortality: eternal life;
But those who are ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey injustice: anger and indignation.
There will be tribulation and anguish for every human soul that does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek;
but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first, and also the Greek.
Because in God there is no meaning of persons.
For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law; and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law;
for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but those who keep the law, they will be justified.
Because when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, instinctively follow the dictates of the law, they, not having the law, are a law to themselves,
since they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience giving testimony, and their thoughts accusing them sometimes and others defending them,
on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus.
But if you, who carry the name of a Jew and rely on the law; that you glory in God,
and you know his will; that you approve of things that are essential, being instructed by law,
and you trust that you are the guide of the blind, light of those who are in darkness,
instructor of fools, teacher of the immature; that you have in the law the very expression of knowledge and truth;
you, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
You who say that adultery should not be committed, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you plunder temples?
You who boast of the law, by violating the law do you dishonor God?
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written.
For circumcision is certainly of value if you practice the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
Therefore, if the uncircumcised meets the requirements of the law, will his uncircumcision not be considered circumcision?
And if he who is physically uncircumcised keeps the law, will he not judge you, that although you have the letter of the law and are circumcised, you are a transgressor of the law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision external, in the flesh;
but he is a Jew who is inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter; the praise of which does not come from men, but from God.
What, then, is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the benefit of circumcision?
Great in every way. First, because they have been entrusted with the oracles of God.
So what? If some were unfaithful, will their unfaithfulness nullify God's faithfulness?
No way! Rather, may God be found truthful, even though every man may be found a liar; as it is written: SO THAT YOU ARE JUSTIFIED IN YOUR WORDS, AND YOU COME WHEN YOU ARE JUDGED.
And if our injustice highlights God's justice, what will we say? Is the God who expresses his wrath unfair? (I speak in human terms).
No way! For otherwise, how would God judge the world?
But if by my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner?
And why not say (as we are slandered, and as some claim that we say): Let us do evil so that good may come? The condemnation of such is just.
So what? Are we better than them? No way; because we have already denounced that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin;
as it is written: THERE IS NO FAIR, NOT EVEN ONE;
THERE IS NO ONE WHO UNDERSTANDS, THERE IS NO ONE WHO SEEKS GOD;
ALL HAVE DIVERTED, TO ONE BECAME USELESS; THERE IS NO ONE WHO DOES THE GOOD THING, THERE IS NOT EVEN ONE.
OPPOSED SEPULCRO IS THEIR THROAT, THEY DECEIVE CONTINUOUSLY WITH THEIR TONGUE, POISON OF SNAKES THERE IS UNDER THEIR LIPS;
FULL IS HIS MOUTH OF CURSE AND BITTER;
THEIR FEET ARE SPEED TO SPILL BLOOD;
DESTRUCTION AND MISERY there is ON THEIR ROADS,
AND THE PATH OF PEACE HAVE NOT BEEN KNOWN.
THERE IS NO FEAR OF GOD IN FRONT OF YOUR EYES.
Now, we know that what the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth is silent and everyone is held accountable before God;
for by the works of the law no human being will be justified before Him; for through the law comes the knowledge of sin.
But now, apart from the law, the justice of God has been manifested, witnessed by the law and the prophets;
that is, the justice of God through faith in Jesus Christ, for all who believe; because there is no distinction;
because everyone sinned and did not reach the glory of God,
being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
whom God publicly exhibited as a propitiation for his blood through faith, as a demonstration of his justice, because in his tolerance, God overlooked the sins previously committed,
to demonstrate his righteousness at this time, so that He may be just and justify the one who has faith in Jesus.
Where, then, is boasting? It is excluded. By what law? The one with the works? No, but by the law of faith.
Because we conclude that man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.
Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, also of the Gentiles,
because in truth God is one, who will justify by virtue of faith the circumcised and through faith the uncircumcised.
Do we then nullify the law through faith? No way! On the contrary, we confirm the law.
What shall we say, then, that Abraham, our father according to the flesh, found?
Because if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not with God.
Because what does Scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
Now, to the one who works, the salary is not counted as a favor, but as debt;
but to him who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the wicked, his faith is counted for righteousness.
As David also speaks of the blessing that comes upon the man to whom God attributes justice apart from works:
Blessed are those whose iniquities have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered.
Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account.
Is this blessing, then, only for the circumcised, or also for the uncircumcised? Because we say: To Abraham, faith was counted for righteousness.
So how was it counted? Being circumcised or uncircumcised? Not being circumcised, but being uncircumcised;
and he received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness of faith which he had while he was still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness might also be imputed to them;
and father of circumcision for those who are not only circumcised, but also follow in the steps of faith that our father Abraham had when he was uncircumcised.
Because the promise to Abraham or his descendants that he would be heir to the world, was not made through the law, but through the justice of faith.
For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is vain and promise is nullified;
because the law produces anger, but where there is no law, there is also no transgression.
So it is by faith, so that it is in accordance with grace, so that the promise is firm for all posterity, not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, which is the father of all of us
(as it is written: I have made you the father of many nations) before the one in whom he believed, that is, God, who gives life to the dead and calls things that do not exist, as if they existed.
He believed in hope against hope, in order to become the father of many nations, according to what had been said to him: So will your descendants be.
And without weakening his faith, he contemplated his own body, which was already as dead as it was about a hundred years old, and the sterility of Sara's womb;
However, regarding the promise of God, Abraham did not hesitate with unbelief, but strengthened himself in faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully convinced that what God had promised, powerful was also to fulfill it.
Therefore his faith was also counted for righteousness.
And not only for him was it written that it was told to him,
but also for us, to whom it will be counted: as those who believe in the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
which was delivered because of our transgressions and resurrected for our justification.
Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have also gained entrance by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we glory in the hope of the glory of God.
And not only this, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces patience;
and patience, proven character; and the tried character, hope;
and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit that was given to us.
For while we were still weak, in due time Christ died for the wicked.
Because there will hardly be someone who dies for a righteous person, although perhaps someone dares to die for the good.
But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Then much more, having now been justified by his blood, we will be saved from the wrath of God through Him.
Because if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, having been reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
And not only this, but we also glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, so also death spread to all men, because they all sinned;
for before the law there was sin in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law.
However, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned with a transgression similar to that of Adam, who is a figure of the one to come.
But it does not happen with the gift as with the transgression. Because if by the transgression of one the many died, much more, the grace of God and the gift by the grace of a man, Jesus Christ, abounded for the many.
Neither does it happen with the gift as with what came through the one who sinned; because the judgment certainly arose because of a transgression, resulting in condemnation; but the gift arose because of many transgressions resulting in justification.
For if by one's transgression death reigned through this, much more will they reign in life through you, Jesus Christ, those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of justice.
Thus, just as by a transgression resulted in the condemnation of all men, so also by an act of justice was the justification of life for all men.
For just as by the disobedience of one man the many were made sinners, so also by the obedience of one the many will be made righteous.
And the law was brought in that transgression might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound,
so that as sin reigned in death, so also grace reigns through justice for eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
What shall we say then? Will we continue in sin so that grace may abound?
No way! We who have died to sin, how will we still live in it?
Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death?
Therefore, we have been buried with Him through baptism to the death, so that as Christ rose from the dead by the glory of the Father, so we too may walk in newness of life.
For if we have been united to Him in the likeness of His death, we will certainly be so also in the likeness of His resurrection,
knowing this, that our old man was crucified with Him, so that our body of sin would be destroyed, so that we would no longer be slaves of sin;
for he who has died has been freed from sin.
And if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
knowing that Christ, having risen from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over Him.
Because as soon as He died, he died to sin once for all; but as soon as he lives, he lives for God.
Likewise you, consider yourselves dead for sin, but alive for God in Christ Jesus.
Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you do not obey its lusts;
neither present the members of your body to sin as instruments of iniquity, but present yourselves to God as living from the dead, and your members to God as instruments of justice.
For sin will not have dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
So what? Will we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? No way!
Do you not know that when you present yourselves as slaves to obey him, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, whether of sin for death, or of obedience for justice?
But thank God, that although you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered;
and having been freed from sin, you have become servants of justice.
I speak in human terms, because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and iniquity, for iniquity, so now present your members as slaves to justice, for sanctification.
Because when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to justice.
What fruit did you have then in those things of which you are now ashamed? Because the end of those things is death.
But now, having been freed from sin and made servants of God, you have by your fruit sanctification, and as a result eternal life.
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Do you not know, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law has jurisdiction over a person while he lives?
For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives; but if her husband dies, she is released from the law regarding the husband.
So, while her husband lives, she will be called an adulteress if she joins another man; but if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so she is not an adulteress even if she joins another man.
Therefore, my brothers, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be united with another, the one who rose from the dead, so that we may bear fruit for God.
Because while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions awakened by the law, acted on the members of our body in order to bear fruit for death.
But now we have been freed from the law, having died to what bound us, so that we serve in the novelty of the Spirit and not in the archaism of the letter.
What shall we say then? Is the law a sin? No way! On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin had it not been for the law; because I would not have known what greed is, if the law had not said: Do not covet.
But sin, taking advantage of the commandment, produced in me all kinds of greed; for apart from the law sin is dead.
And at one time I lived without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died;
and this commandment, which was for life, turned out to me for death;
for sin, taking advantage of the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me.
So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, just, and good.
So what is good became a cause of death for me? No way! On the contrary, it was sin, in order to show that it is sin by producing my death through what is good, so that through the commandment sin would become extremely sinful.
Because we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold into slavery to sin.
Because what I do, I don't understand; because I do not practice what I want to do, but what I hate, I do.
And if what I don't want to do, I do, I agree with the law, recognizing that it is good.
So it is no longer I who do it, but the sin that lives in me.
Because I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good lives; because willing is present in me, but doing good is not.
Well, I don't do the good I want, but the bad I don't want, I practice that.
And if what I do not want to do, I do, it is no longer I who do it, but the sin that lives in me.
So, wanting to do good, I find the law that evil is present in me.
Because in the inner man I delight in the law of God,
but I see another law in the members of my body that makes war against the law of my mind, and makes me prisoner of the law of sin that is in my members.
Wretched me! Who will free me from this body of death?
Thank God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. So I myself, on the one hand, serve the law of God with my mind, but on the other, with the flesh, the law of sin.
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, those who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
Because the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death.
For what the law could not do, since he was weak because of the flesh, God did: sending his own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and as a sin offering, he condemned sin in the flesh,
so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, that we do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit on the things of the Spirit.
For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace;
since the mind set on the flesh is the enemy of God, because it is not subject to the law of God, because it cannot even do it,
and those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
However, you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not His.
And if Christ is in you, even though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of justice.
But if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, the same one who raised Christ Jesus from the dead, he will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
So, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh,
because if you live according to the meat, you will have to die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
For all who are led by the Spirit of God, such are children of God.
For you have not received a spirit of slavery to return to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as children, by which we cry out: Abba, Father!
The Spirit himself testifies to our spirit that we are children of God,
and if children, also heirs; heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if in truth we suffer with Him so that we too may be glorified with Him.
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us.
Because the deep longing of creation is anxiously awaiting the revelation of the children of God.
Because creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but because of the one who submitted it, in hope
that creation itself will also be delivered from the bondage of corruption to the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Well we know that the whole creation moans and suffers labor pains until now.
And not only her, but also ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within, anxiously awaiting the adoption as children, the redemption of our body.
Because in hope we have been saved, but the hope that is seen is not hope, so why wait what you see?
But if we wait for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.
And in the same way, the Spirit also helps us in our weakness; because we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with unspeakable groans;
and he who searches hearts knows what the Spirit feels, because He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, that is, for those who are called according to his purpose.
For those whom he knew beforehand, he also predestined to be made according to the image of his Son, so that he be the firstborn among many brothers;
and those whom he predestined, he also called; and those whom he called, he also justified; and those whom he justified, those he also glorified.
So what shall we say to this? If God is for us, who will be against us?
He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for all of us, how can he not also grant us all things with him?
Who will accuse God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who died, yes, even more, the one who rose, the one who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or hunger, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
As it is written: BECAUSE OF YOU, WE ARE POSTED TO DEATH ALL DAY; WE ARE CONSIDERED AS SHEEP FOR THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
But in all these things we are more than conquerors through the one who loved us.
Because I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor the present, nor the future, nor the powers,
neither the high, nor the deep, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
I tell the truth in Christ, I don't lie, my conscience bearing witness to me in the Holy Spirit,
that I have great sadness and continuous pain in my heart.
Because I would like to be anathema myself, separated from Christ for love of my brothers, my relatives according to the flesh,
that they are Israelites, to whom the adoption as children belongs, and the glory, the covenants, the promulgation of the law, the worship and the promises,
from whom are the patriarchs, and from whom, according to the flesh, comes the Christ, who is above all things, God blessed forever. Amen.
But it is not that the word of God has failed. Because not all the descendants of Israel are Israel;
nor are they all children because they are descendants of Abraham, but BY ISAAC YOUR DESCENT WILL BE CALLED.
That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but the children of the promise are considered as descendants.
Because this is a word of promise: FOR THIS TIME I WILL COME BACK, AND SARA WILL HAVE A SON.
And not only this, but also Rebecca, when she conceived twins of one, our father Isaac
(because when the twins had not yet been born, and had done nothing, neither good nor bad, so that God's purpose according to his election would remain, not by works, but by the one who calls),
it was said to her: THE GREATEST WILL SERVE THE LESS.
As it is written: I LOVED JACOB, BUT I HATED ESAU.
What shall we say then? That there is injustice in God? No way!
Because He says to Moses: I WILL HAVE MERCY ON WHOM I HAVE MERCY, AND I WILL HAVE COMPASSION ON WHOM I HAVE COMPASSION.
So it does not depend on the one who wants or on the one who runs, but on God who has mercy.
Because the Scripture says to Pharaoh: FOR THIS SAME I HAVE RAISED YOU UP, TO DEMONSTRATE MY POWER IN YOU, AND SO THAT MY NAME IS PROCLAIMED BY ALL THE EARTH.
So he has mercy on the one he wants, and the one he loves hardens.
Then you will say to me: Why, then, does God still reproach? Because who resists his will?
On the contrary, who are you, oh man, who answers God? Does the modeled object say to the model: Why did you do this to me?
Or does the potter not have the right over the clay to make from the same mass one vase for honorable use and another for ordinary use?
And what if God, while willing to show his anger and make his power known, patiently endured the vessels of anger prepared for destruction?
He did it to make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory,
that is, we, whom he also called, not only from among the Jews, but also from among the Gentiles.
As it also says in Hosea: TO THOSE WHO WERE NOT MY PEOPLE, I WILL CALL: "MY PEOPLE", AND THE ONE WHO WAS NOT LOVED: "MY BELOVED".
AND IT WILL ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN THE PLACE WHERE IT WAS SAID TO THEM: "YOU ARE NOT MY PEOPLE", THERE THEY WILL BE CALLED SONS OF THE LIVING GOD.
Isaiah also exclaims regarding Israel: EVEN IF THE NUMBER OF THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL IS LIKE THE SAND OF THE SEA, ONLY THE REMNANT WILL BE SAVED;
FOR THE LORD WILL EXECUTE HIS WORD ON THE EARTH CABALLY AND WITH BRIEFNESS.
And as Isaiah predicted: IF THE LORD OF THE ARMIES HAD NOT LEFT US DESCENT, WE WOULD HAVE BECOME LIKE SODOMA, AND FACTS LIKE GOMORRA.
What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who were not after justice, achieved justice, that is, justice that is by faith;
but Israel, which was after a law of justice, did not achieve that law.
Why? Because they did not go after her by faith, but as by works. They stumbled on the stumbling block,
As it is written, Behold, I lay a stumbling stone and a rock of scandal in Zion: and he that believeth on him shall not be ashamed.
James, servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ: To the twelve tribes that are in the dispersion: Greetings.
Take for great joy, my brothers, that you find yourself in various trials,
knowing that the test of your faith produces patience,
and that patience has its perfect result, so that you are perfect and complete, without missing anything.
But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him stone God, who gives to all abundantly and without reproach, and it will be given to him.
But let him ask in faith, without hesitation; For he who doubts is like the wave of the sea, driven by the wind and thrown from one part to another.
Do not think, then, that man, who will receive anything from the Lord,
being a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
But let the brother of humble condition glory in his high position,
and the rich man in his humiliation, for he will pass away like the flower of the grass.
Because the sun rises with scorching heat and dries the grass, and its flower falls and the beauty of its appearance perishes; thus also the rich man will wither away in the midst of his enterprises.
Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, because once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him.
Let no one say when he is tempted: I am tempted by God; because God cannot be tempted by evil and He himself does not tempt anyone.
Rather, each one is tempted when led and seduced by his own passion.
Later, when passion has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and when sin is consummated, it begets death.
My dear brothers, do not be deceived.
Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above, descends from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change or shadow of variation.
In the exercise of his will, He caused us to be born by the word of truth, so that we would be the first fruits of his creatures.
This you know, my beloved brothers. But let everyone be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger;
for the wrath of man does not work the justice of God.
Therefore, discarding all filth and all remnants of malice, humbly receive the implanted word, which is powerful to save your souls.
Be doers of the word and not just listeners who deceive themselves.
For if anyone is a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror;
for after looking at himself and leaving, he immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
But he who looks closely at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides in it, having not become a forgetful hearer but an effective doer, he will be blessed in what he does.
If anyone believes himself religious, but does not restrain his tongue, but deceives his own heart, the religion of such is vain.
The pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father is this: to visit the orphans and the widows in their afflictions, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world.
My brothers, do not have your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of favoritism.
Because if a man with a gold ring and dressed in luxurious clothes enters your congregation, and a poor man with dirty clothes also enters,
and you give special attention to the one who wears the luxurious clothes, and you say: You sit here, in a good place; and to the poor you say: Stand there, or sit by my dais;
Have you not made distinctions among yourselves, and have you become judges with bad thoughts?
Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that He promised to those who love Him?
But you have belittled the poor. Are not the rich oppressing you and personally dragging you to court?
Do they not blaspheme the good name by which you have been called?
If in truth you fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture: YOU WILL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF, you do well.
But if you show favoritism, you commit sin and you are found guilty by law as transgressors.
Because anyone who keeps all the law, but stumbles at one point, has become guilty of all.
Well, the one who said: DO NOT COMMIT ADULTERY, also said: DO NOT KILL. Now, if you do not commit adultery, but kill, you have become a transgressor of the law.
So speak and so proceed, as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty.
Because the judgment will be without mercy for the one that has not shown mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
What good is it, my brothers, if someone says that he has faith, but has no works? Can that faith save him?
If a brother or sister does not have clothes and lacks daily sustenance,
And one of you says to them: Go in peace, warm up and be satisfied, but you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what is the use?
So also faith by itself, if it has no works, is dead.
But someone will say: You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith without works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
You believe that God is one. You do well; Even the demons believe and tremble.
But are you willing to admit, O vain man, that faith without works is sterile?
Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar?
You see that faith worked together with his works, and as a result of works, faith was perfected;
and the Scripture was fulfilled that says: AND ABRAHAM BELIEVED GOD AND IT WAS TOLD TO HIM BY JUSTICE, and he was called a friend of God.
You see that man is justified by works and not only by faith.
And in the same way, was not the harlot Rahab also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them by another way?
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is also dead.
My brethren, do not become many of you teachers, knowing that we will receive a more severe judgment.
Because we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, also capable of restraining the whole body.
Now, if we put the brake on the horses' mouth to obey us, we also direct their entire bodies.
Look also at the ships; Although they are so large and driven by strong winds, they are, however, directed by a very small rudder where the will of the pilot wants.
So also the tongue is a small member, and yet it boasts of great things. Look, what a great forest catches fire with such a small fire!
And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is placed between our members, which contaminates the whole body, is lit by hell and inflames the course of our lives.
Because all kinds of beasts and birds, reptiles and marine animals, can be tamed and have been tamed by mankind,
but no man can tame the tongue; it is a troubled evil and filled with deadly poison.
With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made in the image of God;
blessing and curse come from the same mouth. My brothers, this should not be like this.
Does a fountain through the same opening pour fresh and bitter water?
Perhaps, my brothers, can a fig tree produce olives, or a vine figs? Nor can the source of salty water produce fresh water.
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct his works in meekness of wisdom.
But if you have bitter jealousy and personal ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant and thus lie against the truth.
This wisdom is not that which comes from above, but is earthly, natural, devilish.
Because where there is jealousy and personal ambition, there is confusion and all bad things.
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceful, kind, patronizing, full of mercy and good fruit, without hesitation, without hypocrisy.
And the seed whose fruit is justice is sown in peace by those who make peace.
Where do wars and conflicts come from? Do they not come from your passions that fight in your members?
You covet and you don't have, that's why you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, that's why you fight and make war. You do not have, because you do not ask.
You ask and you do not receive, because you ask with evil purposes, to spend it on your pleasures.
O adulterous souls! Do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity towards God? Therefore, he who wants to be a friend to the world becomes an enemy of God.
Or do you think Scripture says in vain: He jealously longs for the Spirit who has made us dwell?
But He gives more grace. That is why it says: GOD RESISTS THE PROUD BUT GRACES THE HUMBLE.
Therefore submit to God. Resist the devil, then, and he will flee from you.
Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Clean your hands, sinners; and you double-minded, purify your hearts.
Grieve, lament and cry; May your laughter turn to tears and your joy to sadness.
Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord and He will exalt you.
Brothers, do not speak ill of each other. He who speaks ill of a brother or judges his brother, speaks ill of the law and judges the law; but if you judge the law, you are not a fulfillment of the law, but a judge of it.
There is only one giver of the law and judge, who is powerful to save and destroy; but you, who are you who judge your neighbor?
Hear now, you who say: Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city and we will spend a year there, we will do business and we will have profit.
However, you don't know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then fades away.
Rather, you should say: If the Lord wants, we will live and do this or that.
But now you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is bad.
Therefore, to those who know how to do good and do not do it, it is a sin.
Hear now, rich! Cry and howl for the miseries that come upon you.
Your riches have rotted and your clothes are moth-eaten.
Your gold and silver have rusted, their rust will be a witness against you and will consume your flesh like fire. It is in the last days that you have accumulated treasures.
Behold, the wages of the workers who have reaped your fields and which has been retained by you, cry out against you; and the cry of the reapers has reached the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have lived luxuriously on earth, and you have led a life of unbridled pleasure; you have fattened your hearts on the day of the slaughter.
You have condemned and killed the righteous; he does not resist you.
Therefore, brothers, be patient until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the land, being patient in it until he receives the early and the latter rain.
Be patient also; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
Brothers, do not complain against each other, so that you will not be judged; look, the judge is at the gates.
Brothers, take as an example of patience and affliction the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
See that we consider blessed those who suffered. You have heard of Job's patience, and you have seen the result of the Lord's action, that the Lord is very compassionate, and merciful.
And above all, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven, nor by earth, nor by any other oath; rather, be your yes, yes, and your no, no, so that you do not fall under judgment.
Does anyone suffer among you? Let him pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing praises.
Is anyone among you sick? Let him call the elders of the church and pray for him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord;
and the prayer of faith will restore the sick, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins they will be forgiven.
Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The effective prayer of the righteous can accomplish much.
Elijah was a man of passions like ours, and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
And again he prayed, and the sky gave rain and the earth produced its fruit.
My brothers, if one of you strays from the truth and someone makes him return,
know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save his soul from death, and will cover many sins.
Paul, servant of God and apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the full knowledge of the truth that is according to godliness,
with the hope of eternal life, which God, who does not lie, has promised from eternal times,
and in due course manifested his word by the preaching which was entrusted to me according to the commandment of God our Savior,
Titus, true son in common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Savior.
For this reason I left you in Crete, to put in order what remains, and appoint elders in each city as I commanded you,
that is, if someone is blameless, the husband of a single woman, who has believing children, not accused of dissolution or rebellion.
Because the bishop must be blameless as God's administrator, not obstinate, not angry, not given to drink, not quarrelsome, not lover of dishonest profits,
but hospitable, lover of the good, prudent, just, holy, master of himself,
Retaining the faithful word that is in accordance with the teaching, so that it may also exhort with sound doctrine and refute those who contradict it.
Because there are many rebels, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
to whom it is necessary to cover the mouth, because they are upsetting whole families, teaching, for dishonest gains, things that they should not.
One of them, his own prophet, said: Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, gluttonous idlers.
This testimony is true. So sternly rebuke them to be healthy in the faith,
disregarding Jewish myths and commandments of men who depart from the truth.
All things are pure for the pure, but for the corrupt and unbelievers nothing is pure, but both their minds and their consciences are corrupted.
They profess to know God, but with their deeds they deny him, being abominable and disobedient and useless for any good work.
But as for you, teach what agrees with sound doctrine:
The elderly must be sober, worthy, prudent, healthy in faith, in love, in perseverance.
Likewise, old women must be reverent in their conduct: not slanderers or slaves of much wine, who teach the good,
to teach young women to love their husbands, to love their children,
to be prudent, pure, hardworking at home, kind, subject to their husbands, so that the word of God is not blasphemed.
Likewise, he exhorts young people to be prudent;
show yourself in everything as an example of good works, with purity of doctrine, with dignity,
with a healthy and irreproachable word, so that the adversary is ashamed of not having anything bad to say about us.
He exhorts servants to submit to their masters in everything, to be accommodating, not contradicting,
not defrauding, but showing all good faith, so that they adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all respects.
Because the grace of God has been manifested, bringing salvation to all men,
teaching us, that denying impiety and worldly desires, we live in this world soberly, justly and piously,
waiting for the blessed hope and the manifestation of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for us, to redeem us from all iniquity and purify for himself a people for his possession, jealous of good works.
This speaks, exhorts and rebukes with all authority. Let no one belittle you.
Remind them to be subject to the rulers, to the authorities; that they be obedient, that they be prepared for every good work;
that they do not injure anybody, that they are not contentious, but kind, showing all consideration towards all men.
Because we, too, were once foolish, disobedient, lost, slaves to various delights and pleasures, living in malice and envy, abhorrent and hating each other.
But when the goodness of God our Savior, and his love for humanity was manifested,
He saved us, not by works of righteousness that we had done, but according to his mercy, through the washing of regeneration and renewal by the Holy Spirit,
that He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
so that justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
This is a faithful word, and as for these things, I want you to speak firmly, so that those who have believed in God may try to do good works. These things are good and useful for men.
But avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, contests, and discussions about the law, because they are useless and worthless.
The man who causes divisions, after the first and second warning, dismiss him,
knowing that such is perverse and sins, having condemned himself.
When I send you to Artemas or Tychicus, try to come to me in Nicopolis, because I have decided to spend the winter there.
He diligently guides Zenas, interpreter of the law, and Apollos, so that they lack nothing.
And that our people learn to engage in good works, attending to pressing needs, so that they are not without fruit.
All who are with me greet you. Said hello to the people who love you in the faith.
How to raise a little pig
Some time ago I bought a two-month-old pig and started giving him corn to eat.
When he was twenty days with me, he was already quite big and very pretty
so I kept giving him corn to eat.
When he was two and a half months old, I picked him up and started giving him a liter of corn in the morning, another one at noon, and another one in the afternoon.
So it got very nice and when he was five months old I killed him.
I called my wife to help me.
We hold his hands and legs very well and then lay him down on the floor.
Then I grabbed a knife and stuck it into his neck. So he died and a lot of blood came out.
Then I put a pot on a burner and heated water in it. Then we started to remove her hair very well. We clean it well and then we grab it between the two of us and put it on the table.
I peeled the leather very well and 10 we started to tear; Then I put it in a saucepan on the stove and there it started to roast. After the chicharrón was roasted, a lot of butter came out. They came out like two and a half cans.
Also the meat was very good and very fat. And from that little pig, thirty-eight and a half kilos of meat came out.
General Rights of Patients
Receive adequate medical attention.
Receive dignified and respectful treatment.
Receive sufficient, clear, timely and truthful information.
Decide freely about your care.
Grant or not your validly informed consent.
Be treated confidentially.
Having facilities to obtain a second opinion.
Receive medical attention in an emergency.
Have a clinical record.
Be treated when you are dissatisfied with the medical care received.
At CONAMED we assert your rights as a patient. Contact us www. gob.mx/conamed
Are you in home?
Am. Sit down.
Yes.
How are you Pedro?
Well. And you?
Something good.
How about the job?
It is going well.
How about heat?
Now it is very hot.
How are your little children?
Everyone is fine.
Well, I'm leaving.
See you tomorrow.
How are you?
Regular.
What are you doing?
Here I am, no more.
Is Juan there?
No, it's not.
Where did he go?
He went to Nochixtlan.
What time do you return?
Come back around six.
Well, I'm leaving.
Goodbye.
Where is Beto?
He went to Оахаса.
What was it?
Went to the square
What did you go to buy?
You are going to buy blankets.
When he left?
He left now in the morning
Where did it go?
He went by truck.
Who did he go with?
Was only.
Do you speak Spanish?
I speak a little.
I want to learn Spanish.
I want to learn Mixtec.
I want to learn English, too.
Will you show me
Yes, I will show it to you.
Speaking Spanish is not difficult.
Speaking English is not difficult.
Mixtec speaking is not difficult.
Let's talk.
How is this called?
It is called a basket.
I do not understand.
Do you understand?
Yes I understand.
But he did not understand.
He did not hear you.
Say it again, please.
Say it slowly.
I said well?
Yes, he said it well.
How do you say "good" in your language?
Little by little we will learn.
What time is it?
It's two o'clock.
It is still early.
Its five thirty.
It's late.
It's like eight o'clock.
What time do you eat
At noon.
What time is the class?
It starts at three and ends at five.
What time do you arrive at the house?
I arrive around six.
Yesterday the rain fell.
Clarified last night.
All night the moon shone.
It is cloudy again.
And there is wind.
Maybe it's going to rain again.
It's really cold.
I recently heard it rumble.
A while ago when I woke up there was a lot of lightning.
In the morning it was flashing a lot.
Now little did the coyotes shout too.
Maybe they announced the hail.
It is already getting dark.
Hopefully there will be sun tomorrow.
Few days ago.
Many days ago
Last year.
Long time ago.
In a few days.
Next year.
Yesterday
morning
The day before yesterday
day after tomorrow
That little bird is red.
The grass is green.
That flower is yellow.
That dog is black.
Cotton is white.
